Session 1. The Mission
Day 1.
We all signed up for different reasons. Mornie is a professional hired muscle and is in it for the money. Airell knows Draconic that’s needed for the mission and is up to doing odd jobs if they pay well. Arienh is a good soul helping the villagers with healing and various requests, who also doesn’t mind being paid well. Kellen needs a favor from Gellen, and her money to buy that favor got stolen, so she needs to earn it by other means. Mah-Kaylah had a choice between this and a year of hard labor in Seaton after being arrested for a bar fight.

The Mission is to travel up north and investigate Lizardfolk who allegedly were stockpiling weapons. It became urgent after a mansion near Saltmarsh burned down for unknown reasons.

Members of the town council assembled this expedition, promising each person a hefty sum of 150 gold for a 3 day excursion.

They also hired a boat, with Kester and his first mate Bait, a very unusual bright sapphire kobold. Kester is not very fond of water after a shark incident where he lost half of his face, but as everyone here, he doesn’t have much choice and needs to make ends meet.

Day 2.
We sailed off in the morning, having enough provisions for a 3 day journey. Going just along the coast. Mornie and Airell helped with the sails, while Kellen was very excited for her first adventure and looking for sharks in the water.

While passing the Isle of Abbey they noticed a big ship, which Kester identified as “Falling Star”, the infamous and very dangerous pirate ship.

Trying to hide from it they steered their boat into the fog near the coast and Kellen created an illusory rock hoping to discourage the larger ship from going their way.

Crew of the Falling Star tried to steer clear from the rock, failed, but obviously didn’t take any damage from an illusion. However they were not smart enough to see through it and are concerned for the integrity of their ship now.  They are confused but blame the priests of the Abbey Isle.

A few hours later the boat was attacked by a real shark and two sahuagin. The fight was not easy. Arienh was pounding the shark with her stick on her own. Mah-Kaylah almost fell off the board while trying to stab one of the sahuagin. Pistols were fired. Kester had a panic attack, but managed to have a few good shots from his crossbow. After almost drowning Mah-Kaylah’s demonic side took over and she blasted one of the sahuagin of the boat. The other one fell shortly and the shark swam away. Mornie and Kellen calmed down the Kester who really really doesn’t like sharks and water and sailing.

Finally, we got to the point of the shore we were going to and Kester and Bait promised to return for us tomorrow at the same time. As a parting gift Kellen chilled them a barrel of water. It’s hot, humid, and miserable this time of year.

We started going through the marsh. Arienh, being familiar with the area, tried to look for footprints and figure out which way to go. Kellen was running around looking for edible plants and found some that retain fresh water inside.
Mornie was scouting ahead, being the most stealthy person of the group.
We came to a place where we needed to cross the river, and that turned out to be hard. Some of us picked up levels of exhaustion after battling with the stream.

Getting closer to the place where lizardfolk live we stumbled upon a cave with 6 giant lizards. Airell went to scout first and tried to communicate what he saw inside, but we did not understand his interpretive dance. Kellen tried to come closer and touch the minds of the lizards telling them about our friendly intentions, but they turned out to not be smart enough to understand it. We had to kill them. And skin their bodies.

In the cave we found a half eaten corpse of a humanoid, an interesting looking sword and two more tunnels leading to the other caves. Arienh summoned a healing spirit to help everyone feel better and we decided to take a break here (and skin the lizards, because exotic skins cost a lot at Saltmarsh). But after a few minutes some lizard people showed up and started shouting.

<end session 1>

Session 2

As the lizard people shout in draconic to lay down our weapons, Airell tells them (also in draconic) that we are the crew of the morning Falling Star and we have them surrounded. They look at him quizzically and then repeat their commands. The rest of us don't speak draconic, have no idea what is happening, and assume we are being attacked. A battle ensues which involves Kellan getting dragged off and knocked unconscious, having a magical episode, and having one eye turn into an owl eye. It is very dramatic. Once again, Arienh is left to fend for herself.

Eventually we realize we cannot win this fight as more and more lizard people arrive. We put down weapons but have already killed two of their warriors. This does not endear us to the lizard people, but they are desperate for our help so they grudgingly overlook our indiscretions.   We are taken to the prison cells and left for the night.

Day 3

We are taken to prison cells and soon after Koalinth The next morning, Sauriv comes to talk to us taking us out of our prison cells. He explains that the Sahuagin have taken over the lizard people's home and they hope to join with others to defeat the Sahuagin.  We see the Koalinth, sea-goblins, who have refused the alliance.   Kellan mentally speaks to a captured Sshuagin and learns that there are about over 100 (?) Of them.

Next we are taken to meet the lizard queen, Queen Othokent. Her adviser doesn't like us and to help us gain the trust of the other lizard people the queen tells us to go into the swamp to collect some lizard eggs since we killed a bunch of their lizard pets. Once the other lizard people leave, she tells us that she actually needs us to kill the giant crocodile named Thousand Teeth. Some of her people worship it and if we were to "accidentally" come across and kill it, they would take it as a sign we were approved by their god.

We rest for the night and prepare to set out into the marsh.

End session 2


Session 3 - 2/8/2020

Day 4 of our adventure.

We set out for Kester’s boat accompanied by several lizard people to tell Kester to come back for us in 5 to 7 days and to give him an update on what we have learned. A storm is coming in as we head back to the lizard people’s caves and by the time we set out it is pouring rain. We head out through the marsh to search for Thousand Teeth.

On the way we spot an ambush by what we discover are Bullywugs, frog-like creatures who live in the marsh and capture (and presumably eat) travelers. Kellan (KEL-an) and Airell (EYE-rell) distract them with a crocodile illusion and and fake sound and we quickly kill 4 of them. 2 more get away, one with Arienh(ah-ree-EN)’s arrow in its side.

After getting lost for a short time, Arienh gets us back on track and we start to follow the river deeper into the marsh. While crossing a stream, we are ambushed again by 3 more Bullywugs. They try to kidnap Arienh, but she Misty Steps away to the astonishment of the not-so-bright Bullywugs. Perhaps they don’t want us for food but instead for something else? The bard-looking Bullywug damaged several of our party while Mah-Kayla took out the other two on her own. Kellan took out the bard. We realized that the Bullywugs must live nearby, potentially upriver.

We rested for the evening. During the first watch Arienh saw what appeared to be scouts (Bullywugs?), but they did not approach. Airell takes the second watch and Mornie (MOR-nee-ay) takes third, but does not wake Kellan for the 4th watch, instead taking two watches herself.

Day 5

The next morning we continue to follow the river. Mah-Kayla (no need for pronunciation guide) searches unsuccessfully for water as we are running low. We see a Bullywug village and Mornie and Airell go to investigate. They see a floating bar in the middle of the village and two dead Bullywugs pinned to a tree. One of them has Arienh’s arrow in its side so we assume they are the two who got away from us previously. There is nothing else of interest so we continue on

We find Thousand Teeth sunning himself in a lagoon. He does not see us so we have time to plan. Arienh casts Fairy Fire and we start fighting it. Arienh wild shapes into a crocodile and ends up caught and pulled under by Thousand Teeth. While she keeps him busy everyone else continues to do damage, especially Mornie and Airell. Mah-Kayla gets the killing blow by stabbing it in the side and then ramming her sword through its skull.

Mornie saves Arienh with a heimlich (or the preindustrial equivalent) and Airell restores her health with a healing potion. We hack off the head of Thousand Teeth to bring back as proof and Arienh skins it. We all take teeth as trophies.

Airell finds a dead body and on it a cloak, bag of pearls, and a flask. Kellan tries to find out what the items are using a spell, but finds her pearl (formerly eye) is gone. She is very upset, having a complete sobbing breakdown, but is able to still do the spell using the black pearl Airell found. Turns out the body had a cloak of the Manta Ray, 11 black pearls, and a healing potion. We split the pearls (Airell keeps the extra as a finder’s fee), Airell keeps the cloak, and Mornie took the greater potion of healing.

That night Kellan sleeps very badly and is still upset by the loss of her pearl.

Day 6

In the morning we start back to the lizard people’s caves and fortunately find water in vines and edible cattail plants along the way (thanks Mah-Kayla). When we pass back by the Bullywug camp we stop to investigate. Airell, Mornie, and Arienh (in panther form) go to investigate. The Bullywugs are agitated, but we find nothing else. The floating rod is still there. After returning to the group we are about to continue when we hear a loud commotion coming from the Bullywug camp. We return to find a whirling fighter taking on the entire group of Bullywugs alone.

End session 3

Session 4 - 2/22/2020

Still Day 6

We see a whirling fighter in the midst of the camp that we scouted around last time. Immediately we decide to help this mysterious person. Thank goodness we have rested as there are quite a few of these Bullywugs!  The fight doesn’t take long, and the mysterious fighter, whose name we find out later is Joza, recognizes that we are trying to help. This is also the first time that Arienh conjures a bunch of animals to help us out - such fun! The bears, insects, and one fighting horse were quite amazing.

After killing off the Bullywugs, we ask Joza why she is here. She says that she was sent there from her monastery because of some cultists. The cultists were in the midst of completing a ritual when the Bullywugs killed them off. However, the Bullywugs somehow finished the ritual by pinning the two Bullywugs to the tree. After closer inspection, it was obvious that the tree had inscriptions on it that were reminiscent of the swirl we saw in Kellan’s strange eye every time she conjured something.

We decided to search through the makeshift camp. Airell searched the chieftain's tent and found some sending stones, a potion, and some money. Kellan and Arienh looked at the strange floating rod and divined that it was a magical rod that stayed in place once you clicked a button on it. Joza discovered some scrolls in the bag of one of the slain Bullywugs and offered to share them if we would welcome her into our group. Kellan, of course, immediately agreed to her offer and pinned a makeshift “group pin” on Joza’s shirt.

After looking at the scrolls, it was near to impossible to figure out what it was saying as the script was foreign. Mah-Kayla picks up one of the scrolls and somehow is able to start reading it out loud. We start seeing strange words start to glow on the tree when she does this. She realizes what is happening and forces herself to stop. Airell then, realizing that the language is Abyssal, feels compelled to also start reading the scrolls out loud. We see that the words that appeared when Mah-Kayla started reading start to disappear. Kellan shrieks and tells him to stop as it is a spell!

Arienh looks closer at the strange tree and realizes that it’s not from around here. Additionally, the roots do not dig in deep and it’s almost as if the tree somehow walked here. After a closer look, it appears that the tree was being held in place by the immovable rod and some chains, due to the scoring on the tree. We looked around again and saw that the chains had been removed by the Bullywugs for whatever reason. Such strange things are going on!


Kellan decides to try and remove the spell from the tree, but Mah-Kayla stops her and shows her strange owl eye has the same swirl as what is on the tree. Joza tries to undo the spell, but reads it so horribly that the tree shudders to life - it’s a scary Tree Ent!
While the tree shudders to life, we are set upon by these quick, small, nasty little creatures that were called by the tree. They attack us and then dart away quickly, so quickly in fact that we almost do not survive the encounter. Thank goodness we are finally able to take those small, elf creatures down, but not before they hurt us very badly.

Arienh and Mah-Kayla try to burn the tree with their various fire spells. Everyone tries to take down the tree from afar as the reach of this tree is pretty immense. Mornie calls out to Kellan and tells her to undo the spell, and to do it quickly! We kept attacking the tree so that Kellan could finish reading the spell. Mah-Kayla gave the tree the death blow by slashing it with her cutlass. The tree shuddered and split down the middle, but not before it appeared to give out a call for help.

We told Kellan to finish off the spell as the bark was still glowing. She’s able to finish it and then reaches inside for something that is glowing.

Now that the tree is done, and we’ve scoured through everything, we make the unanimous decision to get the hell out of there and head back to the Lizard People’s Lair.  We pushed ourselves to get back and noticed that the area is very quiet. Seems we took out all the dangerous things that would want to attack us.

We hurry back to the Lizard People’s Lair with the head of Thousand Teeth on Kellan’s Tenser’s floating disk, arriving just after sunset.  Knocking on their door, we are unsure of our welcome as they quickly shut it in our faces. We are welcomed into the throne room (after waiting tensely for about 10 minutes) and the Queen sees what we have brought. All of the Lizard People come into the throne room and the Queen starts talking. Airell later tells us that she convinces her people to trust us since we killed off Thousand Teeth. We were unsure about them being happy about this fact as they were hissing, but the old Lizard assured us that the hissing sound was actually a happy sound. Phew!

We then are told that there will be a celebration in our honor the following day. Great! Now it’s time to clean off the grime from our travels. In the midst of us cleaning up, Kellan was able to find her pearl - yay!

Session 5 - 3/7/2020

Day 7

Having slept in the Lizard Folks’ caves for the night, we are woken by a kurfuffle in Airell’s corner of the room. He is standing by his bed glaring at Joza who is on his bed glaring back. We don’t know what they are doing, but Joza slinks grumpily back to her bed. Kellan whispers to her, “What were you looking for?” Joza, being more skilled at whispering, replies something no one else hears.

In the late morning the Sauriv brings us food and tell us about the ceremony to take place that evening. He calls it a binding of two groups and compares it to a wedding. Mah-Kaylah confuses him as to our culture’s general take on weddings, but it gets straightened out. Sauriv learns not to use Mah-Kaylah as a yardstick of our culture as a whole. He also comes to the conclusion that Kellan is just a child. A magical, unpredictable, occasionally dangerous child, but still a thing to be smiled at and patted on the head. Sauriv has learned much from this encounter.

Sauriv teaches us a game that roughly translates as “Shark”. It is a fairly simple game played on a board similar to chess. There will be various competitions at the ceremony and the playing of this game is one of them.

Meanwhile, Kellan mindspeaks to Joza about getting Airell into a Hold Person spell so they can question him. Kellan goes to Airell with the pretense of wanting to learn some Draconic phrases to use at the celebration. He agrees to teach her some, and she casts the spell trying to cover it with butchered Draconic. Airell senses he is being manipulated with magic and gets angry. Kellan says it wasn’t intentional. There is general discord. Joza admits she put Kellan up to it because she didn’t believe Airell split the money he found evenly. We find that he does indeed have more of the ancient coins than the rest of us. He claims he already had them before our adventure, but they are identical to the rest that he shared - not common looking coins. Joza seems pleased by the chaos and discord.

We continue to kill time until the Liard Folk come to get us for the celebration. We enter the hall to find Thousand teeth’s head on the wall and his meat cut up and prepared for the feast along with lots of other food.

Kellan and Mah-Kaylah tell the story of the killing of Thousand Teeth with much flair and light magical effects (C3-PO style. And with equal skill.) At some point the games are announced.

Mornie wins an eating contest (prize - healing potion). Joza and Kellan compete in a hot water dance and Joza wins (prize - giant feather). Airell and Arienh compete against the Queen and advisors in Shark. Arienh wins (prize - coral shark). Mah-Keylah fights several of the warriors and wins (prize - a knife?).

A good time is had by all. Especially Kellan.

Day 8

Kellan is sick from the fun and especially drinks from the night before. As we leave she tells the guards in Draconic “Nice to meet you” while pointing at the mess she has made and looking nauseously apologetic. Arienh tries to help by giving her charcol, but Kellan is too far gone.

We make our way to the shore where we meet Kester. We give him an update and he complains about taxes, the navy, and no one doing anything about the Falling Star. We all sail back to town.

When we get back to town we meet Gellan at his house where we also see evidence of his smuggling operation. We take much needed baths. By the time we are done the town council have assembled and Mornie tells them the story of our adventure. She leaves out the part about Kellan’s eye, but Gellan notices anyway, is mad at Mornie and Mah-Kaylah for not protecting her, and an argument begins to develop between the council members. Gellan and Eda are clearly allied against Eliander and are provoking him although he does not seem to realize this. Then Manistrad sees the cutlass that Mah-Kaylah picked up off of the dead dwarf and is furious because she recognized it as belonging to one of her men.

Then there is further arguing over her having sent out people already and not telling the council. Gellan goes on about her having gone behind their backs and undermining the council. His speech had clearly been planned in advance and was to provoke Eliander.

Eliander gets mad at Gellan for the smuggling and lays into Manistrad about sending people into harms way without telling them. He gives an extra 25 gp to Kellen for her injury.

Mornie tells Eliander about the Lizard Folks’ request for an ambassador. Eliander speaks in Draconic and says he will go himself. He also tells Mah-Kaylah that her past crimes will be ignored (there is an actual term for this that is escaping me at the moment…). We are each paid 150 gp and part ways.

'Downtime (in alphabetical order)

Airell - When we returned to town, I disguised myself, and met councilman Anders Solmar. He did not recognize me. I went up and, unbeknownst to him, cast Friends on him. I asked if he had heard of Zvala the slave and gunpowder manufacturing. I warned him not to get involved in anything having to do with him. Made a bang (using Minor Illusion) off to the side, and escaped while Anders was distracted. When Friends ended Anders realized that a spell had been cast on him and he was angry at the unknown person who cast it.

Later in the month I arrived as my established cover, Yenfyr Aroben. I am posing as an employee of Duke Zashar from the County of Ulek. I came and begged an audience with Anders. I asked if he would be willing to split the cost of an expedition to save the slave Zvala who was being held captive just inland from the hold of the Sea Princes. The slave is a master gunpowder maker and my employer wishes to save him, his family and his apprentice. Duke Zashar and his friends are trying to get the secrets of gunpowder because they are afraid of a potential war. Would Anders be willing to split the cost of the expedition? In return, when Zvala and the apprentice are brought to salt marsh Zvala will finish training the apprentice and then leave the apprentice with the council so they too have someone who can make gunpowder.

Councilman Anders said he would look into it further and we should meet again a day after Richefest. Over the next few days leading up to Richfest I went to a few taverns and spread rumors to the most drunk patrons about the existence of a slave with the knowledge of how to make gunpowder so that when Anders went looking he would find people who had heard of Zvala.

Also during downtime I defrauded a bunch of people at three card ante.

Arienh - Buys a healing potion, sells the croc skin for 600 gp, gives each other party member 100 gp. Saves the rest to start work on a bag of  holding at the next down time. Provides medical services to the community and earns money.  Eda visits her hovel and gives her a piece of land in the town and gets the boat builders guild to build her a house.

Kellen - Goes to work for the wizard. Spends most time sorting through his books. Builds a clockwork crock that follows her around. It looks like Thousand teeth. She bargains with the wizard and he lets her learn a ritual spell from one of his books. In the evenings she goes to local taverns, picks a slightly drunk person who looks fun and can Suggestion on them. There’s a tale starting to form about people randomly dancing and taking their clothes off and reciting terrible poems.

Mah-Kaylah - Rocky montage to gain proficiency in Athletic. Lifts fish barrels to work out and accidentally dumps the fish on her head. She is mocked endlessly by the sailors on the dock.

Mornie - Mornie knew that she needed to report back to Mage Drawmij back in the Styes. Because of the possibility of the journey being precarious, she first purchased some healing potions from Captain Zendros. Mornie then secured passage from Harer Zane to take her to the Styes.

Once she landed in the once bustling area that has since seen much chaos and ruin, Mornie walked to the place where she was reborn and retrained. Seeing Nenredhe, priestess of Wee Jass, training new recruits brought Mornie back to the time when she first woke up. Nenredhe was a cold, formal, and relentless teacher who taught Mornie everything she knew, but without the compassion needed to form a solid teacher-student bond. Nenredhe acknowledged Mornie’s presence and brought her to the Mage Drawmij.

Mornie reported what had happened since she left, including showing the scrolls that had been used with the awakened tree. Drawmij told Mornie to keep a close eye on Kellen and Mah-Kaylah. If needed, to take them out if Drawmij gives the order. Mornie acknowledged the orders and then left his presence. She spent one night and then headed back to the ship.


Session 6

One month later…

It’s the festival of Richfest and everyone is partying. Kellan wins a frog race, Airell picks some pockets, Mornie gambles and loses a drinking contest.  MK performs badly and then goes home with Captain Xendros. Eliander and Eda escort the Lizard Folk back to their caves and continue negotiations.

On the morning of the 3rd of Reaping we hear drums as a column of dwarves holding clubs and  lead by Manistred comes marching through town. MK sees them first and follows, Mornie is at the docks and meets them at the bridge, Arienh sees them as they pass her house and meets them at the bridge, Kellan is on a stroll and sees them past (she is startled into dropping a very good pastry) and follows asking them what is going on. Airell is sleeping.

The dwarves stop at the bridge where the town guard has blocked their way. Mornie tries to get the dwarves to stand down and asks what they want. Manistred tells her that the mines have been sabotaged with magic sealant and they are there to get Captain Xendros. Kraddock the Jailor is leading the city guard. He and Mornie both try to get Manistred to stop by asking what proof she has that it was Zendros. They are unsuccessful in talking and a fight breaks out.

Meanwhile Airell has been woken up with a knee to the chest and a knife to the throat. An assailant is asking him who he really is. He thinks Airell is Yenfer (the cover from Airell’s downtime). Airell convinces him he made a mistake and he is actually Airell who is favored by the council and has been in town for months. The assailant tries to salvage his ‘mistake’ and tells Airell he works for him from now on. Airell jumps out the window. The assailant comes around and cuts Airell with a poison dagger. Airell jumps back in through the window and prepares to attack whoever comes through the door. Outside he hears the sound of a metal whip. Joza is fighting the assailant who runs away. When Joza tries to come into Airell’s room he attacks her. They spat and she leaves.

Meanwhile back at the bridge, the fighting continues. Arienh casts Entangle, MK fights some dwarves, Mornie fails to grapple Manistred. Kellan casts Suggestion on Manistred and convinces her to “stand down and be nice”. Manistred and the dwarves head back to just outside of town to wait, while Mornie, Kellan, MK, and Arienh head to Capt. Zendros’ shop.

Meanwhile Airell goes back to sleep.

At Capt. Zendros’ there is flirting and she is finally convinced to come talk to the dwarves. The towns folk are setting up barricades.


Session 7 - 4/4/2020

Going to the edge of town with Captain Xendros to talk to Manistrad.
Everyone is there in the temple with the priest, waiting to talk.
Dockwatch is walking a bunch of people, mobilizing. Dwarfs are drumming.
Ministred was temporarily replaced, and taken to the mines. No negotiations. Dwarves figured out that Ministred was charmed.

Mornie, Mah-Kayla and Kellen run after the dwarves and want to talk to their captain, but dwarves agressively don’t want to talk to them. They try to persuade them, but are not successful and come back to town.

Asking Xendros what could’ve happened with the mines. She’s not sure, but suspects it’s Sovereign Glue, mystical adhesive. It’s not possible to undo it though magic. Maybe Universal Solvent could undo it.

Mornie gets a job offer to lead the town's guard. Mah-Kayla is hurt.

Kellen asks Gellen Primewater if he knows something. He doesn’t.

Storm starts, lots of cargo is spoiled. Kellen is casting flying sharks. Airell is diving around and finds a bag of silver.

Next day, negotiations continue with freshly arrived Edda and Eliander. Arienh is invited and is listening in on their political squabble.
Airell is helping to rebuild barricades and listening for rumors when everything goes still. Joza says “well, you fucked that up”. She takes apart his plan. They have a verbal confrontation.
Salmar? has a big spy network and assassins. They have spies in the Sea Princes, but not [somewhere else]. She warns him that they will soon track him back down to Gradsul. It’s not Joza. Her eyes are the wrong color. It’s the goddess of trickery. She tells him to stay alive, ask Joza to come with him and investigate. She also tells him to not be a dick to his “big sister” and friends and Joza. Anders wants to meet with him the next day. And asking him to bring other party members too.
Everyone gets the invitation separately.
Mornie is visited by the manservant and fails an insight check.
[Brandon] is invited too.
Airell is going to the temple to visit Joza and finally invites her too.

Brunch party at Anders’s mansion.
Everyone is there.
Scaron (man servant) is walking with a limp and there’s a blood stain around his leg. Joza recognizes that as a mark from her chain. He is the assassin that attacked Airell.

Anders says we’re celebrities. We got nicknames!! (Fill out later) Introduces us to Harer Zain, one of the merchant captains.

It is indeed Sovereign glue. Captain Xendros looked into it, and turns out there’s a way to deal with it. There’s a potion that can be made that will slide it into ethereal plane. She knows an alchemist in the Styes that could make it. It’s a den of pirates.

Scaron is not sure if we’re the best people to send. It’s a lot of money. 20 pearls worth 500gp each. Mornie is watching Ariel very very closely.
We’re looking for Master Eliot Refrum. He’s an alchemist, Captain Xendros used to work with him. He found Pelor and now treats the sick and poor.

Some shopping for healing potions.
Next day - on the ship.
It has two decks and gun ports with cannons. 3 masted ship, super fast. Crew is 12 people + captain.
It’s about 1 day of sail.

Falling star is catching up. Their captain boards our ship and asks for the manifest. It’s a little weird, because they are not attacking, but kinda expecting stuff.
Falling star captain shoots our captain and the fight starts. When the enemy wizard casts a big spell on us, Mah-Keyla’s sword is shining and counterspelling it.

Really long fight. Two days in real life.
Melissa throws a fire into a cannon and creates a giant hole in Falling Star.

We are victorious! Now we need to figure out what to do with a giant ship...

Session 8 - 4/11/2020
Many of the crew of the Rat’s Tail do not survive. Harer Zane has five of his crew remaining.

Mornie and Airell run over to the captain to search him. He is unconscious but breathing. Mornie relieves the captain of his bandolier, pistols, and other items. Airell then runs to the captain’s quarters to search.

Airell finds maps of the Bay of Javan, the Four Islands (Flotsam, Jetsam, Fairwind, & Sybarite), cartographer’s tools, a fully colored atlas of the entire world, a red potion, a letter with a list of items and dates, and three sets of silk tunics.

Arienh searches the Mage’s quarters and finds a chess set, a potion of healing, navigator’s tools, and a spellbook. She then searches the Dragonborn quarters and finds multiple potions of healing, weaver’s tools, and a silk hat with a brocade floral pattern. In the mage’s quarters she also finds a clockwork parrott, tinker’s tools, and more potions.

Joza looks around to search for any other ships, but the weather is hazy even though there’s a 3 mile view.

Kellen searches the gun deck and sees the remnants of the pirates who were blown up by the cannon. She retches and cannot stand the sight of what is left. She then searches the rest of the area and ends up closing a lid to an open barrel of gunpowder. The galley is fully stocked. In searching the Halfling’s quarters, she finds an inlaid ivory drinking horn, a potion, the ship’s log book, and playing cards that have pictures of naked women.

After relieving the captain of his precious items, Mornie joins Airell in the captain’s quarters. She asks for the letter. Airell tells Mornie about the coordinates and she figures out that the coordinates are close to where they are currently.

Joza walks over to the captain and notices that he’s unconscious. She decides to wait there for him to wake up.

Kellen goes to the lowest level. She can tell that the ship is riding higher than normal - obviously getting ready to receive a lot of cargo. She also notices that there are chains there which would be used to transport slaves. She then walks over to the side and carves “Kellen was here.”

Harer finds one of the pirate crew is stirring. He convinces him to change sides. After questioning the pirate, he finds out that the pirates were going after the Sundowner. The pirate was confused by the fact that Harer attacked them. Harer says, “Aren’t you in on the scam?” The pirate explains that there was a falling out at Abbey Isle with the priests and the pirates lost 60 men.

Joza hears the captain. She asks him his name - Arjan Mon. He was the pirate captain for 8 years.

Harer comes up and is upset with Arjan. He asks if Arjan has any last words. Arjan glibly replies, “Let me go?” Harer complies by dumping him over the side of the ship. Arjan feebly tries to swim and looks up with frustration at Harer. Harer then puts him out of his misery by killing him with a crossbow shot in the chest.

Kellen comes skipping up and is sad about the captain. She demands to know what is happening and Harer turns away. Kellen is somewhat irritated with this and puts the image of a shark in his face. He flinches and tries to shoot the sharks...without any effect.

Mornie checks out the Dragonborn who is unconscious. The dark skinned pirate next to the dragonborn stirs. She notices and waves a knife in his face telling him to sit up. After some negotiating, he agrees to live and join Harer’s crew.

Arienh discovers a rod in the wizard's quarters.

Randal (the dark skinned pirate) introduces himself. Mornie asks him why they are in the current smuggling situation. He explains that they used to work for the priests who knew a lot of people who would give the pirates tasks. The captain then had a falling out with the priests. The priests sent the pirates out to pick up a baby kraken. It had a weird spiral pattern on its skin. They fought it in the eye of a hurricane. They brought it back after losing many of the crew. The priests did not say why they wanted it, and the captain was pissed about the entire situation and left. The priests then summoned bad weather and a rocky formation when they were leaving the island. This made the captain even more upset, so that in 2 weeks, they went back and killed the priests and the kraken.

Mornie then went around and tied up the remaining pirate crew.

Kellan spent a lot of time detecting all the magic items. The crew divvied up the items.

Mornie and Arienh see a ship coming in the distance and realize that it’s the original ship that the pirates were supposed to meet - the Sundowner. After much discussion, the group decides that they are going to get the items that the pirates originally were going to smuggle. Airell dresses up as the captain. The Sundowner signals to the ship that they are not hostile.

Everyone clears the bodies to the Rat’s Tail and three of the Rat’s Tail crew move the Rat’s Tail around the boat. The Sundowner comes and the captain comes over to the Falling Star. They load 50 barrels of peanuts, 10 barrels of oranges, 5 barrels of wine, 20 barrels of gunpowder, and 50 barrels of various spices. It was a successful transaction. Kellen used Tenser’s Disc to assist with the moving of barrels.

Harer tells Airell that he feels that the group screwed up big time by attacking the Falling Star. He reveals that Anders is his boss. Airell asks Kellen if she can do the “mind thing.” She admits she can...but not until tomorrow.

Randal looks at the group and realizes that they have NO clue what is happening. Arienh motions him over. Harer says that the rest have no idea what is going on. Randal says, “Are you shitting me?” Randal asks if they know Gellan Primewater. Harer says, “I do not know” and then shoots Randal. Harer then says, “It’s over. I’m going to take care of this. I will get you to the Styes.”

Mornie runs over and gives Randal a healing potion and brings him back to consciousness.

Both Mah-kayla and Kellen try to take Harer down/remove his weapons - they fail.

Arienh runs over to  Randal and he says that the pirates are the middle men and are to take the good to Port Torvin from the merchant in order to avoid paying for taxes. Randal is so freaked out from almost dying twice. He will tell them ANYTHING.

Harer says that it is only smuggling and that this is all water cooler talk. After some talking, Mornie takes Randal downstairs, making sure to keep him far from Harer.

The group then decides to take both boats to a cove to drop off the Rat’s Tail. After dropping off the boat, they will go to Torvin to drop off the goods. They intend to use the Immovable Rod to anchor the Rat’s Tail so that no one can take it.

In the midst of the discussion, Kellen blurts out that the Falling Star is magical!


Session 9 - 4/18/2020

The next day, having secured the Rat’s Tail, we head to Port Torvin. Arienh finds 15 hollow cannon balls to potentially make into bombs. She also spends time working on the ship. By the end of the week the Falling Star will heal 24 points. Meanwhile Kellan and Airell work on a writ of ownership so we are official owners of the Falling Star. Mornie oversees the sailors.

Randal and Mornie discuss protection for the pirates in Saltmarsh and how to drop the smuggled goods at Port Torvin. She finds the rest of the pirates very guarded.

The next morning we pull into Port Torvin. Airell, Mornie, Kellan and Randal head ashore to try to sell the goods to Yusgrolir. Airell is disguised as the captain. The rest stay with the ship. The shore group heads to Shemash the Harbor Master. While in line to see him, they see Kester who is obvious and almost blows the cover. Mornie will talk to him later.

Airell needs to re-cast his disguise spell and Kellan offers to make a distraction. She makes a pretend fire on the roof of the building. Everyone freaks out, more time is wasted in trying to put it out, but finally they get to see Yusgrolir, a well dressed dwarf with four ogre bodyguards. Mayor Yusgrolir checks the papers and processes everything. He pays us 150 gold with the rest due when they transfer the goods.

We find out that Argen Mon (former captain of the Falling Star) had a vendetta against Keolanders and wants to not just smuggle but start reaving Keolanders.

Yusgrolir, who is covered in magic items, invites our whole crew to a party (opening of the new gardens) the next evening where we will be the guests of honor. He asks if anything went wrong on the journey over because we are missing half the crew. Airell says they got sick. He is persuasive as usual so it works. Airell and Randal leave just before Airell’s disguise fades and head back to the Falling Star.

Mornie and Kellan go to meet with Kester at the Topless Mermaid. Kellan is wearing an illusion. Kester makes Mornie explain what is going on. In the end they decide Kester will tell Gellan what happened so they don’t freak out when the Falling Star shows up in Saltmarsh. We will send Gellan a message via one of the sending stones (which Kester will deliver to him) when we are close to Saltmarsh.
Yusgrolir’s people come move the cargo and we are paid another 13,500 (270 lb) in silver.

The ladies of the party go shopping for party clothes and spend 83 gold. We all prep for the party.


Session 10 - 5/2/2020

Airell and MK prep Airell’s captain disguise, Kellan casts suggestion on the dragonborn so he doesn’t do anything stupid at the party. Joza and Herer stay on the boat.

The rest of us head for the party. The lightning towers crackle announcing the start of the party. The whole town is out partying. We head for Yusgrolir’s  house and pass under the towers. Barash and Randal flinch.

The garden is full of statues of past rulers of the city states of the Sea Princes. At one end is a maze with a third lightning tower in the middle.

Yusgrolir greets us and gives us fortified wine that gets all but Kellan drunk. Kellan chats to a sailor who doesn’t like captain Arjan Mon and walks away.

Yusgrolir comes out and gives a speech thanking Arjan Mon for the new partnership. There is not much enthusiasm from the crowd. Yusgrolir says it is time for the maze and the lightning tower lights up and zaps Mornie, MK, Arienh, and Randal into the maze but on the Ethereal plane.

Airell, Kellan, and Barash remain with Yusgrolir.

Ethereal plane - we fight a bunch of monsters, go left a lot, collect some Owlbear claws (Randal thinks we are nuts), and get stuck at the far end of the maze.

Material plane - Airell and Kellan come clean to Yusgrolir who thinks Capt. Arjan broke their deal by killing people. Yusgrolir. laughs and says anyone who survives the maze he will allow to go free with their life. But he is keeping the falling star. Kellan makes fireworks, the Ogre guards freak out and start shooting everyone including Yusgrolir. A fight begins and Airell (shockingly) steals a necklace. Yusgrolir flies to his house and shouts to the guards to take the falling star and kill us. Airell and Kellan chase him inside (Barash is dead. Ogres shot him). Kellan casts suggestion on Yusgrolir and convinces him that it was all a misunderstanding, he should bring the rest of us back from the maze and let us go. It works and the rest of the party pop back to this plane. Which is good, because we weren’t going to survive the trip back to the other side of the maze.

We race back to the ship where Joza and Herer have just finished off a raiding party. We take off for the Styes to get back to our original mission. No one remembers what that was :P We also get 180 gold from looting the raiding party.

Session 11 5/9/2020

Goal: Find Elliot Refrum and purchase Oil of Etherealness from him.

It’s late that night as we make a hasty exit from Port Torvin and head for the Styes. We decide to rest and leave later the next day so that we can arrive midday the day after.

On the trip Arienh fixes 4 hit points on the boat. Corey: I can’t update the falling star sheet on Drive, can you adjust it or make it editable? It’s currently a pdf.

Kellen has a bad dream.

Upon arriving at the Styes, we take the rowboat into the harbor while Herer watches the ship. We leave the rowboat on the East (?) end of the mainland and head for the bridges that connect the mainland to the Styes. As we walk we pass through the ruins of Monmerg, the city destroyed in the sack by the Keolander’s army. While we walk Mornie has a vision or memory of being there at the sack, sword and torch in hand.

We come to the first bridge which is guarded by several soldiers. They demand payment to let us across. After much arguing and negotiation, we end up paying 30 gold plus 5 silver. On the way across the bridge a purposefully loosened plank gives way and Mornie falls into the sludge beneath. The soldiers laugh. Thus begins the journey of yuck that is the entire experience of the Styes.

Mornie looks for a taxi boat (2 gold) while the rest of the group asks after Refrum. Various people tell us where to find him (his quasi-hospital in the Alchemy quarter), but a boy is sent to warn him of our approach. The taxi has to take us in two groups. Group one (Joza, Kellan, MK) see the boy ahead of them as they land on the Alchemist side of the lagoon. Kellan takes off after him and the others follow. Meanwhile on the other side of the lagoon the other three wait and watch them run off. Arienh asks Mornie about her weird spell but Mornie isn’t sure what happened.

The first group arrives at Refraim’s and meets Garm who is pretending to be Refrum to keep us from finding him. When we explain why we are there the real Refrum comes out and invites us up to his workplace. In the process of explaining why we are there Kellan mentions Capt. Zendros which she wasn’t supposed to do. Still unclear why.

Turns out Refrum uses the Oil of Etherealness to rescue people from what is essentially slavery under the city Councilor who rules over the Alchemist quarter, Mr. Dory. Mr. Dory turns a blind eye to the people who disappear and Refrum heals Mr. Dory’s workers.

Refrum puts herbs on the eyes of the people who are affected by the extreme pollution of the Styes.

The second group arrives and are updated. We pay Refrum 3,000 gp worth of pearls for the Oil. Then Refrum finds out we haven’t been to see Mr. Dory yet and freaks out. Mr. Dory requires 50% of all transactions and he will be mad. Sure enough as we head out, Mr. Dory’s men appear to escort us straight to him. Harid is the enforcer.

Mr. Nemo’s headquarters is a disgusting, dripping, humid, cesspool of a ship hanging from a crane. Mr. Dory is the same. Sitting in a pool of gross liquid, something is clearly wrong with him although he appears human. He attempts to put a spell on us and now Mornie can’t lie to him.

Kellan is weird and provokes Mr. Dory (why?). Mr. Dory trolls us, we all hate him excessively, and he takes the 3,000 in pearls as well as Airell’s Cloak of the Manta Ray. He is NOT PLEASED.

Kellan, still weirdly angry, sets a fire on the way out, but everyone just laughs at her.

We go back to Refrum who tells us he is supposed to be stalling us while Mr.Dory’s men take our ship. We should take the Oil, pearls, and attack him so it looks real, then run. We do (hit Garm instead) and head back at top speed. Mornie pays (20 silver, ships funds) some locals to row us across the lagoon as fast as possible. Arienh cast walk on water so we can all run to the ship. Arienh, Joza, and Kellan trip and fall behind. Kellan looses components for Tenser’s Disk.

When we approach the ship we see it has been taken by Goblins and 2 Hippogriffs. MK, Airell, and Mornie do most of the fighting while the rest try to catch up to the ship. By the time they get there, a Scum has risen from the water so there is still someone to fight. MK and Airell are running on water to get back to Arienh and the Scum when Arienh is knocked unconscious. The walk on water spell drops and they are all dumped into the water. Airell casts spare the dying and all make it back to the boat.

We head to pick up the Rat’s Tail.

Questions:
Why did Capt Zendros not want us to mention her name?
What is wrong with Kellan?

To do:
Replace Kellan’s components
Get Rat’s Tail
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil
Go to Abbey Isle
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Do something about Yusgrolir?

Session 12 5/24/2020

Goal: Return to Saltmarsh with the Oil

Fleeing the Styes we returned to the Rat’s tail and found it in the same place, untouched. As it was late we spent the night and took some rest before heading back to Saltmarsh.

Herer Xain and his remaining sailors returned to the Rat’s tail and sailed along with the Falling star and the party. We claimed our rooms on the Falling Star
Arienh - Mage’s quarters
Mornie - Dragonborn’s room
Kellen - Halfling’s quarters
Airell - Captains’ quarter
MK - First Mate’s Quarters

We had quite a triumphant entrance into the Saltmarsh. Falling Star is too big to dock there, so we left it a few miles away, piled the sailors in the last remaining row boat and with Arienh’s magic walked alongside it to the shore.
Saltmarsh greeted us with a celebration. We are now Heroes of Saltmarsh and everyone loves us. Cheer, booze and food.
Sailors of the Fallen Star were taken prisoners immediately. Mornie tried to intervene, but fails miserably (rolls a 1).
Edda and an elderly halfling are waiting there and take the Oil from us.
Eliander is trying to give a speech, but cheer is too loud.
Xendros jumps on MK and they disappear to have some private fun.
Mornie follows sailors to the prison.
Everyone else enjoys the celebration and all the free food and drink. Kellen climbed on shoulder of a half-orc from Dockwatch and they are now best friends. Kids are playing chase with illusory rainbow sharks.
Gellen comes over and Kellen makes a show for him, retelling the story of their adventures.
Mornie hates bridges. She loses it on the bridge on the way to the barracks, and then again on the way back.
She talks to Eliander about releasing the sailors, but he is not budging. They will face trial for their crimes. Instead, he offers a job to Mornie, MK and Airell to be captains of the town guard.
He alludes that if they accept they might be able to keep Falling Star. It seems he assumes Falling Star belongs to Saltmarsh now. Oh, how disappointed he will be later…
In the mids of the celebration Edda is approaching Arienh quietly. She says her parents would’ve been proud of her. She asks what’s next. Arienh doesn’t share any plans with her.
Anders reminds everyone to come to his house for the payments.
Airell checks on his house and someone was definitely there, went through everything and tried to cover their tracks.
Later that day Mornie finds everyone (except for Joza, who disappeared) and calls a meeting.
At Arienh’s house: Mornie lays out the offers that she got, and the assumption that Eliander has.
It’s late, so Mornie and Airell go back to sleep on the ship just in case, and Kellen crashes right there. MK is still having fun with Xendros.
Nothing happens overnight.
We go to Anders and receive our payment. He’s star struck by us, but his man servant is giving everyone a stink eye. Kellen uses Wand of Smiles on him and he grins for a minute. It’s creepy.
He also somehow knows that we didn’t spend all the pearls in Styes.
Anders offers to buy the Falling Star for 100k gold.
There are a few days to rest.
Arienh is going back to her usual craft of healing people.
Airell is digging on Anders, who has suspiciously large network. Anders is from the family who trades fish and that’s what he mostly does. Him hiring IT crew helped with his popularity. His servant Skerrin looks more suspicious. He’s almost always with Anders and doesn’t seem to do anything else.
Kellen buys paper and ink and transcribes new spells.
MK continues her training when she’s not busy with Xendros.
Mornie walks around town hating bridges.

Xendros was keeping herself busy brewing potions, so we buy some. She has a very interesting, but very expensive potion of strength that we decided not to buy.
Arienh and Mornie ask her to look for a few itesm for them: bag of holding, bracer of defence and a cloak for Airell.

We all want to go to Abbey Isle and talk to the priests there. Maybe make it our base. Two problems arise: (1) we need a crew and that’s quite expensive, (2) it looks very bad for politics if a private party owns powerful ship like the Falling Star.
We make a deal with Edda and Gellan that we will take the Isle for the Saltmarsh. Mornie tries to hire some of the pirates back to the ship, but Eliander doesn’t let us do it. Mornie and Airell go to at least talk to Randall and he describes what he knows.
Abbey Isle has a Skull beach with lots of skeletons buried in there that will kill anyone who comes close. Other side used to have a cave with the Kraken, but Falling star destroyed it and he’s pretty sure the creature is dead. They also burned the Abbey itself and killed the priests. Should be an easy trip.

We hire some crew, so we can at least fire one cannon if needed, buy 2 new row boats (total of 3 now) and set sail. Weather is super hot, humid and miserable.

MK shares some of her observations about people:
Xendros: lvl 9, has more HP than MK
Skerrin - lvl 7, Dex < 20, but close
Eliander - lvl >7, Con > 14
Anders - lvl < 7, Con < 14
Edda - lvl < 7, Con < 14

It’s a short 1h trip to the island. We hide the ship in the mist and set on foot again. The plan is to use balloon packs to scale the cliffs from the side.
It’s really hard to walk in this heat.
Then the sharks and the saughan come. A big and hard fight ensures. Arienh almost died (which would’ve dropped us in the water). Kellen casts Fear and third of the sharks run away. We finish the rest.
Exhausted after the fight in this terrible heat (Kellen gets an actual heatstroke), we decide to find shade and rest until sundown.

Questions:
Why did Capt Zendros not want us to mention her name?
What is wrong with Kellan?

To do:
Replace Kellan’s components - Done
Get Rat’s Tail - Done
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil - Done
Go to Abbey Isle - In progress
Figure out what to do with the Falling Star
Find out who was in Airell’s house
Find Joza
Rescue Randall
Find ways to pay the crew long term (we only have enough money for 1 month)
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Do something about Yusgrolir?

Session 13 5-31-2020

Goal - go to Abby Isle and investigate. Maybe take it over, maybe not. TBD when we get there.

After resting at the base of the cliffs we levitate up with the bags of levitation. Kellan detects a magic pulsing from the West(? Sorry I missed the map explanation) side of the Isle. It’s dark, but Arienh still sees tracks leading West and South (?) from piles of wood, metal, and pottery salvaged from the ruins of the Abbey.

We go to the cellar stairs and find a door at the bottom. Airell uses Mage Hand to check for traps. Door is askew due to the Abbey being in ruins, but no traps. Airell and Kellan hear 3 voices on the other side of the door. They are semi-jovial, like a group playing a game. Airell mends the door hinges which causes a creak. The voices stop. Kellan knocks.

The door pops open and we see a large person with armor, shield, and a drawn sword. Behind him is someone in robes. The armored guy is named Ogmund. There is a confrontation, but we’re trying to not start a fight.

We get invited inside. There are a few monks in robes, and some soldiers. Their leader is Osimandius. When he hears that we have the Falling Star he gets super happy and says “We can leave now!”. They’ve been hiding in this cellar this whole time. It smells awful.
Mornie notices that something is off about them. They seem shifty. She tries to telegraph it with Thieves Cant, but we don’t understand it.
Note for later: Learn Thieves Cant.
MK observes Ogmund and he’s higher level than her.
Arienh didn’t participate in the conversation. Instead, she turned into a spider and crawled in.
They say they are Priests of Procan, following Aspect of the Tempest. And they’ve been hiding here since the Falling Star burned the Abbey.
Something doesn’t add up for Airell. Red robes they are wearing are not the color of Procan.
Priests ask us to take a few of their soldiers to Gradsul so they can contact their network and help rescue everyone. We tentatively agree, but they definitely look shifty. Osimandius is a terrible liar.
Mornie remembers what the robes are. It’s some old and evil cult.

We promise to take them tomorrow and go make camp outside. Arienh the spider stays inside to listen in on the conversation. And yes, they are evil. They are planning to kill us all and take the Falling Star. They also mention Eye in the Deep.

We look for Arienh around the island until she comes out of the spider form. Finally we can share information with each other.
They are the Scarlett Brotherhood and they are very bad. They are from Suel Empire and completely crazy. It used to be a magical empire and all of the magic we know is written in Suelese. It was destroyed long time ago.

We develop a plan for tomorrow:
Arienh will still go as a spider.
Mornie teaches everyone signs for Danger and Liar.
We will be very careful and not trust them.

While settling down in the camp Kellen feels compelled to go to the ruins. She, Mornie and Arienh go there stealthily. There’s one big standing obelisk and a few broken ones lying around. Every obelisk has some engraving on it. It looks like magic spells.
Kellen touches the standing obelisk and has a vision. Chained Oblivion is talking to her. She freaks out (and levels up).

In the morning priests don’t come out of their cellar. So we decide to go check on them. Arienh the spider gets inside and finds everyone still sleeping. She opens the doors for us and we quietly come in. Since they are evil we decide to take this opportunity to kill them.

MK burns a room full of lower priests and goes on to kill Ogben.
Mornie knocks Osimandius unconscious in his bed.
Airell whispers “Papa, get up!” into Odium’s ear and stabs him to death.
Kellen traps soldiers inside Hunger of Hadar.

Half elf that was serving them surrenders.

In there we find:
Room with a crude drawing on a dragon and secret door.
Library with books covered in Manta Ray skin. They are talking about Chained Oblivion and go from scientific to crazy fanatic.
Some loot.
We learn that priests were set here to summon the Kraken and find the Herald.
Arienh was supposed to become the Herald in the storm that killed her family, but she didn’t go through it.
So now Kellen is the Herald.
The Eye in the Deep is the kraken and we’re pretty sure it’s dead, but maybe not.

To do:
Replace Kellan’s components - Done
Get Rat’s Tail - Done
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil - Done
Go to Abbey Isle - Done
Figure out what to do with the Falling Star - keep it
Find out who was in Airell’s house - Skerrin
Find Joza
Rescue Randall
Find ways to pay the crew long term (we only have enough money for 1 month)
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Do something about Yusgrolir?
Interrogate Abbey prisoners
Find their contact in Saltmarsh
Find the Kraken?

Session 14 6/13/2020
Interrogations are in order.
Half-elf Bayleaf spills everything voluntarily. He’s a mercenary and was hired in Gradsul to train soldiers in the Abbey. He quickly realized they were all nuts, but couldn’t escape in time before pirates of the Falling Star attacked.
His contact in Gradsul is a guy named Fish. Rat’s tail brought him here.
He calls Kellen the Herald. Brotherhood was planning to bond Herald with the Kraken.
He’s not sure if Kraken is dead.
There was a High Priest here, but he died in the attack. Now Osimandius is the highest ranked here, but he used to be small fish and doesn’t know much.
Bayleaf tried to go down the Winding way once, got some people killed and didn’t try again. There’s treasure there, but also traps and guards.

Osimandius is very annoying to talk to. He tries to play dumb, then gets all preachy, then we figure out that he actually doesn’t know much and is a religious fanatic. He doesn’t even know who the Herald is. He thinks the first Herald perished during the ritual. Mornie trolls him. Arienh is trying to get some useful information out of him, but he just doesn’t know anything. He says that Kraken is still downstairs and is feeding off pathetic people.

We go down the way.

First room has a walking zombie and a zombie beholder. We get scared and decide to rest first.
While resting we read some books, and learn that the Brotherhood toppled the obelisks outsides that were binding the thing in the middle. They also built the winding way and we find a crude map with 4 rooms. Their leader is called Farther of Obedience. And they are super racist. They do have some women in the order.

After rest we try again - and it turns out they are easier to kill than we expected. So we keep going. It looks like a maze, and some creepy mist tries to ambush us, but MK kills two of them in one swift move.
There are traps, but they are very primitive and Airell has no issues disarming them.
We find a treasury with a jade statue of a vampire elf. We kill it, but there’s no treasure in this room.
Another room has an ominous looking black sphere in the middle. There are two guardians there, which we fight. One of them gets pushed inside the sphere and just disappears.
After going through the room we find money, gems and a half finished letter.
Letter talks about the sphere being Sphere of Annihilation and it’s there in case something going wrong with the Kraken.


Session 15 - 6/20/2020

To do -
Rescue Randall
Find ways to pay the crew long term (we only have enough money for 1 month)
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Do something about Yusgrolir?
Interrogate Abbey prisoners - done
Find their contact in Saltmarsh
Find the Kraken? - Not in the cave
Figure out a means of communicating with the falling star

Questions -
Who arrived in Saltmarsh 10-12 years ago and could be the brotherhood’s contact?
Who is the brother in saltmarsh?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
What does Ferrin Kastilar know?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?

Reaping - 18th

Kellan tries to control the sphere. She succeeds once and then fails. 4 times. The sphere does not move the way the identify spell said it would because the sphere is cursed. It is now embedded in the stone somewhere and we (finally) decide to leave it.

We continue down and find the sea cave. Arienh and Airell peek in while some of Arienh’s conjured animals wander around. There are empty manacles in the water which is lit with phosphorescent coral. The manacles were clearly meant to hold the Kraken, but it is not there. The stone bars covering the cave entrance to the sea are also broken outwards. The Kraken has escaped.
We walk on water outside the cave and see that the entrance is covered with an illusion of rock. The pirates said they fired cannons at the cave entrance but they must have been in the wrong place because there is no evidence of cannon fire on the stones in or around the cave mouth.

We go back and investigate other passages in the winding way that we passed before. There are some traps and two minotaurs. The stone one is apparently immune to lightening damage.

We rest. Bay Leaf asks about how we got the Falling Star. He wants info but isn’t malicious.

We find out that the Abby and basement existed before the Brotherhood arrived, but they magically dug the winding way. They also went crazy about 20 years ago, around the same time they destroyed the binding of the obelisks.

As we sleep, Arienh dreams about the day she nearly drowned and almost became the Herald. She remembers the darkness moving and reaching towards her, something brushing her hand and then being on the shore, washed up. This is much more than she has dreamed before. Someone flips her over, knife in hand, ready for something. It is Ferrin who raised Arienh after the storm and the death of her parents. He checks Arienh’s eyes, seems relieved and magically heals her.

Arienh wakes up, shares this with Mornie. We need to talk to Ferrin as he obviously knows something. Arienh also finds out that Mornie only needs half as much sleep as a normal person.

Reaping - 19th

The next day we pack up, realize a storm is coming and rush for Saltmarsh. Bay Leaf gets a level of exhaustion. Capt. Sorrel (we hired her for the Falling Star) wants a better means of communication since they didn’t know what to do when the storm blew in.

We barely make it to Saltmarsh before the storm sets in and as we arrive we see 5 ships (2 big, 3 small) in the harbor flying the red flag of the duke of Seaton (Marik Feldren). Judd, our half orc boatswain (?) goes below to prep the cannons.

An uncertain sounding voice directs us to surrender. Mornie shouts back magically that we are not pirates. They say lower sail and strike colors. She says we are already your subjects, no need to surrender, we will talk after the storm is over.

(No damage to the Falling Star from the storm, one of their big ships takes damage.)

All but Kellan go invisible and water walk to the closest big ship to spy. There are few sailors on board, most must be in Saltmarsh. Airell finds a letter saying they had been preparing to go to Saltmarsh and then got told to leave immediately (so they left earlier that day?).

Arienh, Airell, and Mornie go to shore to find Eda. She tells us the Duke himself is in town to claim the Falling Star, and Gellan has been arrested and is to be tried for piracy (he’s not) and smuggling (he is) and hanged.

Session 16 - 7/11/2020

Arienh, Airell, and Mornie are continuing to talk with Eda about the current situation in Saltmarsh. My goodness, that Duke is an ass! Also, Eliander, being the noble pompous twit that he continues to be, actually arrested Gellan. Turns out that after we left, Eliander met with the pirates and found out from Randall that Mornie had negotiated a deal for their lives. Eliander, of course, didn’t take well to that and Randall tried to bargain and offered up Gellan’s part in the smuggling.

This meant that Eliander was determined to end the smuggling, so he met with Eda and Gellan. Gellan, true to form, rejected what Eliander offered and the conversation quickly went downhill. Eda then admitted to us that she pushed Eliander a bit far when she said that if he tried to do anything, that he would have a riot. Eliander arrested Gellan on the spot. And of course, true to the great timing in this land, the Duke arrived that afternoon.

The Duke came to Saltmarsh where rumors were starting to fly about our team returning successfully from the Abbey Isle. The Duke made it clear to everyone that he wanted to capture the Falling Star. His men and family along with half of his fleet are currently occupying Saltmarsh and his family took over the Council Building. The Duke wants to sink or capture the Falling Star. However, when it was clear that wasn’t going to work, he had a town meeting where he also took over the Town Watch. The Dock Watch, bless them, refused him point blank.

The Duke decided then that since the culprit who sabotaged the mines hadn’t yet been found, he decided to close down all the fishing - their livelihood!! The town guard was sent house to house to investigate, which of course was stopped by the bad weather.

The trial of Gellan was supposed to be held today, and the Duke, bless his heart, slapped on a PIRACY charge because Gellan sent US to Abbey Isle. Anders was the one who blurted out that we were sent to the aisle to capture it without the committee voting on it.

After absorbing all this news, Eda asked how we did. Mornie and Arienh explained how we were successful and had to make some explanations about the Scarlet Brotherhood as Eda was in disbelief.

After much discussion, we decided to take over the ships and recruit the people of Saltmarsh to help us, specifically the Dock Watch. Eda suggested that the groups would all meet at Crabber’s Cove. Arienh cast Walk on Water on all groups so that we could successfully take over the ships. Kellan and Mah-Kayla were contacted via the Sending Stones so that they were prepared for Arienh.

We successfully took over all the ships, with the bloodshed only coming from Kellan and Mah-Kayla. The storm then cleared.

Mornie used her new sword and called to the shore to purposely irritate the Duke into not thinking. By doing this, the crowd on the shore started chanting “Falling Star!!!” The Duke sent boats to the captured ships and the Falling Star sent a warning shot. The boats stopped. Kellan, just because, sent her owl to shit on the Duke. It nailed him. Poor Dukey.

One boat then was allowed to come to the Falling Star - 4 sailors and a man who appears to have elf blood. The man is in armor but not carrying any weapons. Mah-Kayla was immediately enthralled with his gorgeous platinum blond hair. The man introduces himself as Sir Piersym of Seconforth and he negotiates with us on the terms of the parlay. Mah-Kayla notices that he has a higher AC, same fighter level, and same constitution.

The parlay will occur on the docks. Now we need to decide who will be the main speaker and what we really want!

Session 17 - 7/18/2020

We discuss amongst ourselves what to negotiate for with the Duke. We tell Sorell if she sees a rainbow sparkly flying shark to run like hell, and if she sees a regular flying shark to fight. She takes these instructions in a stride.

1500 people of Saltmarsh are gathered to witness our parlay. There is a priest of Heironeous, the god of chivalry, the Duke’s pikemen, soldiers on horseback, and the Duke’s wife and son all gathered at the pavilion. Arienh goes mouse to wait on the side.

The priest makes a speech about no weapons, holy peace, etc. He is very earnest. The Duke on the other hands starts yelling, making demands, and generally being an ass. His wife tries to calm him down and keep him from going off the deep end, but is unsuccessful.

MK has had it and attacks the Duke. Mornie shouts to the crowd with the mega-sword that the Duke is trying to take the town. This gets all the towns people on our side (yay!). The Duke’s wife, son, son’s minder, and Sir Piersom make a run for it and escape. There is much fighting, the Duke tries to run, Xendros shows up and becomes visible (she is in full “how dare you touch my MK” attack mode).Xendros shoots magic missiles, Arienh fries a bunch of people with lightning, and finally Airell shoots the Duke who falls unconscious.

As things settle down Kellan talks to the priest who is disgusted by the Duke’s behavior. He says the Duke didn’t live up to the ideals of chivalry so what happened here is on him. We let the dock watch and Falling Star know we are ok and attempt to calm down the townsfolk who start manning the ships we have taken from the Duke. Xendros and MK do their thing (off screen thank goodness), Airell and Arienh attempt to find Eda who is not at home but went with Eliander to the jail/barracks which is where they head next.

Mornie, MK, and Kellan go to the Duke’s fortifications where he is recuperating. The priest says come back tomorrow at dawn with the whole council and we will all talk.

Meanwhile at the barracks Eliander explains that he has let Gellan go (to house arrest) in part because he got a message from Gellan that Yusgrolir (our favorite maze loving dwarf) is mustering a fleet to come to Saltmarsh, take Abby Isle, and capture the Falling Star. It’s great to have such a popular ship.

Airell wants to know what the king will think of all of this. Eliander is just totally shaken up and appalled that the Duke behaved the way he did. The Duke effed up and Eliander isn’t sure what it will mean.

Airell asks if Eliander can keep the Duke and his men either contained in Saltmarsh or sent off to Seaton while we take our new fleet and deal with Yusgrolir. Eliander replies that it would be best if the Duke was not in Saltmarsh any longer than necessary. Airell also talks to Manistred and finds out what she thinks and if she will be helpful. She says she will basically go along with whatever Eliander says.

We all meet up and go talk to Gellan at his house. He wants to speak with Kellan in private. While they talk the rest of us silently wonder why Gellan and Kellan had to have such similar names. It’s not at all confusing. Gellan gives Kellan her ruby tiara that she lost way back at the beginning of the campaign. He doesn’t say how he got it, but she is glad to have it back. He tells her that Yusgrolir has half a dozen ships, orc invaders, and will be here within the week. Gellan knows that once all this is dealt with Eliander will have Gellan re-arrested so he wants Kellan to kill the pirates so they can’t testify against him.

To do -
Rescue Randall (or possibly kill him and the other pirates, TBD)
Find ways to pay the crew long term (we only have enough money for 1 month)
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Do something about Yusgrolir’s impending attack
Find the brotherhood contact in Saltmarsh
Find the Kraken? - Not in the cave
Get the Duke out of Saltmarsh. Dead or alive. Possibly ask to deal with the wife instead.

Questions -
Who arrived in Saltmarsh 10-12 years ago and could be the brotherhood’s contact?
Who is the brother in saltmarsh?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
What does Ferrin Kastilar know?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?
Why is the Duke an asshole? Actually, who cares. What are the consequences of killing him? Is it worth it?
How do we deal with the Duke, Yusgrolir, Gellan, etc without having to spend the rest of the campaign being true pirates, running a smuggling ring or dukedom, or otherwise getting tangled up in politics? Which none of us are good at.

Session 18 - 7/23/2020
After a restless night on the ship, we return to Saltmarsh at dawn to meet with the Duke again. Xendros is still with us, not letting go of MK. As we walk through the docs, Herrer Zain shows up and says that Anders wants to speak with Airell privately. So he splits up from the group and they leave for their secret meeting.

Town is full of fortifications. Duke’s people are a bit more professional with spikes pointing out and guards patrolling the space. Local militia is also mobilized and feels ready to push back.

Waiting on the steps of the Council hall is most of the council members (Anders and Gellan are not there), and some of the dockwatch.

Edda gives Arienh a piece of parchment with fresh ink on it. It’s a contract for IT and the Falling Star to serve as guardians of Saltmarsh for the daily pay of 40 gp. Contract’s date is 4 days ago.

Inside the building Duke, priest and the rest are ready for negotiations 2.0. Priest is standing on the side holding Duke’s sword. I guess they had a talk.

The Priest reminds everyone that truce is holy, and we should behave. He’s looking at the Duke. Kinda weird that we are the proper people in this scene.
Eliander steps forward, gives Duke a copy of the contract and declares that IT was hired by Saltmarsh, and are not pirates after all.

Duke tosses the contract on the ground and starts yelling how that will not fool him. His wife carefully picks up the paper and reads through it.

Edda’s patience runs out, she explodes and points out to the Duke, that he could’ve not taken on the Falling Star with his meager fleet. And that he doesn’t have the power here. That, very predictably, triggers Duke and he tries to get handsy, but the guards stop him.

Eliander scolds the Duke, and says something to the extend of “if you do it again, I’ll kill you” (in a more eloquent way).

Lady Eloise starts whispering into her husbands ear to calm him down, and that works somewhat. We get a sense that she’s very important to him.

To switch gears, Eliander mentions the bigger threat Saltmarsh is facing right now. Kellen steps forward and tells about Yusgrolir with his fleet, planning to attack. She has to reveal that Gellan was the source of the information, and Duke says he doesn’t trust him at all, since he’s a pirate and a smuggler. Edda is really tired of this shit, and speaks up again to defend Gellan. Duke explodes yet again, cursing everyone and everything.

<cutscene>
Meanwhile Airell shows up near the Council Building. He’s not looking well. He’s heavily bruised and has a head wound that’s bleeding profusely. Guards don’t want to let him in, but he’s very convincing.

<back to the Duke>

Duke is just mad. He’s saying that he will abandon Saltmarsh and leave it for Sea Princes to pillage and destroy. Everyone here is trash and only deserve to be hanged.

Airell walks in and, mostly ignoring the raging Duke, says he really needs a private conversation with his teammates. He says that the meeting was fake, Skerrin jumped him and he barely escaped.

Mornie talks to the Priest, calling to the laws, and pointing out that the Duke is breaking his oath as a sovereign of Saltmarsh.

Duke keeps yelling. Priest shushes him.

Eliander really had enough. He stands up and says “You will do nothing to Gellan Primewater or the pirates. They are protected by my law. You have failed. I will petition to the king to have you removed. We are taking your ships. We will give you enough supplies to get back to Seaton and escort you out.
We have forces to match yours, and we have IT who’s proven to take on challenges much bigger than you are.
We are done here.”

He walks out, and everyone else follows him, leaving Duke stunned.

Eliander walks straight to Gellan’s house. There we find rest of council members, including Anders and Skerrin by his side. They are having breakfast.

Airell insists that we need to talk among ourselves before saying anything there. We go outside.
He says that Herrer took him into a room with multiple guards and Skerrin. He was asking questions about Abbey Isle and the brotherhood. He wanted to know what really happened there and if they all are dead. He cast a spell from his ring, similar to some spell that Kellen has. Airell jumped through the window to escape before the spell could take effect.

We should be very careful what we talk about in front of Skerrin and Anders.

We go inside and everyone is watching Skerrin closely now. There’s some small talk and Anders asks Airell what happened to him. Apparently, he doesn’t know what happened? Skerrin interrupts and says that Airell refused Anders’ offer, but no worries, Skerrin secured Mr. Tobar instead. While saying that Skerring gives Airell a loaded look.

It doesn’t look like Anders knows anything. He’s kinda dumb, and relies on Skerrin a lot.

Kellen asks Skerrin to leave the room. Anders gets defensive. MK picks Skerrin up and carries him outside. Eliander intimidates MK to stop it, and she drops him in the dirt. Anders picks him up and drags him inside, still covered in dirt. MK and Xendros stay outside.

Arienh is trying to be the voice of reason, but Eliander is too preoccupied with the incoming threat. He’s also planning to ride to see the king. Everyone starts talking business and tactics.
Ministred offers her dwarves to help. There are some guards and some musketmen. She asks that the rest of her people are allowed to stay in the relative safety of Saltmarsh.

Mornie is named the admiral now.

We give Gellan Sending Stones, so he can give one to his spy in Port Torvin and we have better intel.

MK comes back and checks out Skerrin. He’s lvl 7, has Con 14 and more than 67 HP.
We get referral to blacksmith named Nefera who can help make stuff.
We agree that Mornie will come for meetings every morning and evening to decide on the strategy and preparations.

MK leaves with Xendros. Xendros is offering for them to run away in the far away land and live happily ever after. MK wants to stay, the first time in her life she feels like she can be someone and do something. Xendros performs the ritual on MK, and MK gets some new powers?

Kellen talks to Gellan. He tells her when the prisons will be empty and it would be a good time to deal with the pirates. She asks about Skerrin, and he says that he appeared in Saltmarsh a few weeks after the big storm 12 years ago. He used to work for Petra, Anders’ mother. It is the same storm that took Arienh’s parents.

Arienh goes to visit the druid Ferrin Kastilar that raised her. He’s in the Sea Grove that is part shanty town part shrine. People who lost something come to live here. She asks about Scarlett Brotherhood, and he says they are racist and he’s not a fan. She pushes some more, and he starts talking about cosmos and spark of creation, and “Nothing”. He knows it reached out to Arienh, and that’s how he found her. He’s glad she’s not the Herald.
He doesn’t think being Herald can be reversed, and strongly advises Arienh to kill Herald immediately.
He also says that taking in Arienh put him on a path that will lead to his death.



To do
Find evidence that Skerrin is from the Brotherhood and kill him
Deal with the pirates. Gellan wants them dead, but maybe we can make them disappear?
Prepare for the attack
Get Mornie the admiral hat
Take Sending Stones back from Gellan
Find ways to pay the crew long term (we only have enough money for 1 month)
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Find the Kraken? - Not in the cave
Get the Duke out of Saltmarsh.
Questions
Who is Mr Tobar and why did Skerrin give Airell a look?
Why is Anders so attached to Skerrin?
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?
How do we deal with the Duke, Yusgrolir, Gellan, etc without having to spend the rest of the campaign being true pirates, running a smuggling ring or dukedom, or otherwise getting tangled up in politics? Which none of us are good at.

Session 19 - 8/1/2020

To do
Find out if Skerin is telling the truth
Find out if Eliander is really Eliander
Destroy whoever committed/ordered the Sea Grove slaughter. Arienh has dibs.
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross. Airell wants his cloak back.
Find the Kraken? - Not in the cave

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?

Completed
Rescue Randall (or possibly kill him and the other pirates, TBD)
Do something about Yusgrolir’s impending attack
Get the Duke out of Saltmarsh. Dead or alive. Possibly ask to deal with the wife
Replace Kellan’s components - Done
Get Rat’s Tail - Done
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil - Done
Go to Abbey Isle - Done
Figure out what to do with the Falling Star - keep it
Find out who was in Airell’s house - Skerrin
Interrogate Abbey prisoners
Prepare for Yusgrolir’s attack
Take Sending Stones back from Gellan
Find a way to pay the FS crew long term

Answered(ish) Questions
Who is Mr Tobar and why did Skerrin give Airell a look?
Why is Anders so attached to Skerrin?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?
How do we deal with the Duke, Yusgrolir, Gellan, etc without having to spend the rest of the campaign being true pirates, running a smuggling ring or dukedom, or otherwise getting tangled up in politics? Which none of us are good at.

Kellan approached Mornie about attempting to save the pirates. Mornie won’t kill them. Kellan needs to make them disappear. Airell sees nothing in it for him and does nothing. Arienh and MK agree to go with Kellan to the jail. They have basically no plan. They sneak invisibly into the jail. Kellan knocks on the closed door to the cell block. One guard opens the door and walks out thinking the cooks were calling. The other sits at the desk. Kellan smacks him over the head and tries to knock him out. It almost works but MK has to finish the job before the guard turns and sees Kellan. The other guard heads back so Kellan slams the door which MK hides behind to get a jump on the second guard who enters carrying two beer mugs. MK knocks him out then starts splashing beer on the guards to make it look like they were drunk. Arienh decides this is a silly plan and does not want to be part of murdering a bunch of pirates in their cells. They are horrible people but we did make a deal with them. So she grabs the keys, lets them out and says “You have one chance to escape. Get out and never come back.” The pirates run. Kellan recasts invisibility and she and MK run. Arienh stops to heal the cooks the pirates hurt in their escape and they see her for an instant before she spiders away.

Meanwhile, MK chases the pirates down and kills them. She is seen and says, “I heard the shouting and saw them escaping!” This seems to satisfy the onlookers. Kellan heads back to the ship and Arienh stops at Gellan’s where there is a commotion. Apparently someone has tried to poison Gellan and got his cook instead.

We all meet that evening at Gellan’s for updates. The sending stone was sent to Port Torvin and the informant there said the fleet had not yet sailed. Eliander asked the group to meet him at his house. Once we arrive he asks about what happened on Abby Isle and what the issue was with Skerrin. Airell asked if he knew about the SB. Eliander asked if we know about the city Burle.
Eliander served there with Kiara Shadowbreaker and she often blamed the SB for everything that went wrong.

Eliander asks to keep information just between himself, Gellan, and Mornie. That way they would know if someone was passing on information they shouldn’t.

After six days of waiting and preparing we find out Yusgrolir is finally on his way. They plan to anchor at Abby Isle and attack at 1st light. We decide to go out to cut them off at sea (insert Hamilton quote for Yuriy who won’t read the notes anyway).

There is a big awesome naval battle which we win. There are lightning strikes, cannons, and big explosions. Yusgrolir escapes, but we get some of his ships.

We return jubilant and victorious, but the people at home are subdued. Apparently there has been a massacre of all the people living in the Sea Grove including Ferrin, Arienh’s adopted father. Eliander won’t let Arienh go to the grove so she heads home instead.

Eliander says he has to go to the king now, but he will leave someone in charge of finding out who did this.

The rest of IT heads to the grove to see what they can find. They are met on the way by Skerrin who wants to talk to Mornie about something. They stand so that the rest of the group is not in ear shot but can read Mornie’s lips.

Skerrin says they seem to be working towards the same goal and asks what she knows about the “Order of the Silent Ones”. They are a group of powerful Celoise wizards whose goal is to keep powerful magic out of the “wrong” hands. Meaning anyone but theirs. They are advisors to the king of Keoland and operate from the lonely tower near the capitol. They have operatives who range far and wide raging secret wars against other orders of magic. Skerrin works for them. (Side note, our local wizard Drawmij does not get along with the Silent Ones.)

Skerrin knows about Arienh being the Herald and about the SB because someone at the Sea Grove was a spy who overheard her talking to Ferrin and then told Eliander in whose house works a spy for Skerrin who told Skerrin about Ferrin knowing about Arienh. Why are there so many rhyming or almost rhyming names in this town? Skerrin says Ferrin was tortured for the information he had about Arienh.

Skerrin thinks Arienh is the Herald and doesn’t seem to know about Kellan. He thinks the SB will be looking for Arienh. He also thinks Eliander is the SB spy in Saltmarsh. He says it’s not the real Eliander but someone disguised to look like him. The real one died years ago. Eliander wanted to make sure Seaton and Saltmarsh were at odds so that no one would have time to pursue the SB while they looked for the Herald. Skerrin also thinks Airell is working for the SB and tells Mornie about Airell’s scamming of Anders.

Mornie asks Skerrin if his society knows how to cage the Chained Oblivion. Now Skerrin knows what we found at the Isle. He doesn’t really answer, just talks about how the SB will be looking for Arienh. He walks away.

The group goes to check out Ferrin’s house. It’s bad. Much torture of Ferrin, everyone dead in their homes. This was done by a kill squad and someone who likes to cause pain. We don’t know if Ferrin didn’t give up information or if the torturer just kept going for funsies.

Meanwhile Arienh, who was not about to let Eliander stop her, goes panther. But actually goes Eagle. She flies over and sees the Grove. As the rest of the group heads to her house she has a moment where she feels like she could just leave and then maybe control the entire world. But that sounds like way too much work and she’d much rather get revenge, thank you very much. So she goes back to being human.

Everyone meets at Arienh’s house and all is discussed. Airell comes clean, Mornie tells us what Skerrin says. We rest.
Downtime
Kellen
Kellen goes to Seaton. She buys some plain clothes and a large hat, catches a ride with a trade caravan going there with smuggled goods.
Her previous workplace is gone. Completely demolished, there are just ruins. She comes closer to look, finds some explosion marks and notices a street urchin staring at her. He tries to run, but she got some battle skills now. Turns out they know each other, she used to give him spare change when she worked there.
He confesses that some guy hired him to keep an eye on this pile of rubble and tell him if anyone comes by. He calls the guy The Clockmaker. Human, dark skinned, quite good looking. They met at the docks near the bakery every Godsday. The Clockmaker is usually wearing an apron, and sits on the docks with coffee and pastry. He’s paying 10cp/week.
Sparkler Joymakers burned down 3-4 months ago. There were no survivors. Rumors are they were smuggling gunpowder behind their front of firework making and it didn’t combine well. Kellen knows for sure they never dealt with gunpowder and took safety seriously.
Kellen gives the boy 10sp, makes him promise to not tell anyone about her, and sets a meeting in a few days.

Overwhelmed with worry, Kellen goes to her family house. Fortunately, they seemed to be okay. She climbs into the bedroom window and leaves a letter for her family. Letter is very cheerful, telling of the fun adventures she had in Saltmarsh. She writes that she’s going on a long adventure at sea and will not be able to write for a while.

She goes to the docks to look for the Clockmaker. He’s pretty easy to find, people know about him. His name is Sharav and he, indeed, has a clock and guns shop. Kellen walks by to check it out, but doesn’t engage just yet. She gets a room in a fancy inn on the waterfront and waits until dark.

At midnight, she sneaks to the clock shop and tries to get in, but it’s very well locked, and she doesn’t quite know what to do. So she forges a note and leaves it at the backdoor. ‘Have news. Meet tomorrow morning at docks.”.

So next morning Clockmaker is sitting on the docks next to the bakery. They have a chat. He’s lying badly, and also apparently hired a thug to ambush Kellen. Kellen casts her favorite spell, but even before it takes effect Sharav sees her eye and gets super excited. Looks like he is from the Brotherhood.

They go back to the shop, he sends the thug away. He’s super excited to have found the Herald. It was his mission in Seaton. He tracked a weird book to the gnome district and Sparkler Joymakers. He interrogated and killed everyone there and blew it up to cover the tracks. The only name he got was Naomi Stargazer, but that’s not a real person.

He says they should start preparations to go to the Brotherhood. They are located in the Tilvanot Peninsula. He has a sending stone to communicate with them.
Kellen has to kill him.
She makes it look like the shop was robbed. Takes money, the nicest gun he has (very pretty wheel-lock rifled pistol), and some random trinkets. She doesn’t find any letters.

She sneaks out, distracting people with yet another fake fire.
She hides one of the gold bracelets on the docks, hoping the beggar boy will find it.

Gathering her things she leaves town the same day. She stops at the stables on the edge of town and buys a pony. Chestnut colored with white spots. She names her Sparky.

Kellen also goes to Styes, picks up a guy named Meizen and escorts him to Hokar. She gets Friends of the Law coin for returning him to the guards there.

Todo:
Go to Tilvanot Peninsula and kill the brotherhood


Arienh

Arienh spends the first two weeks growing a memorial for Ferrin and enriching the land around Saltmarsh.
	From DM: A little postscript on the Sea Grove:  a woman named "Ma" Garret steps in to rebuild the community.  Ma Garret is the matriarch of a (human) family of swamp folk.  Arienh knows the Garret clan; they'd periodically come to the Sea Grove to trade furs, meats, and salt at the Green Market.  Ma Garret is a priestess of Ehlonna of the Forests, the goddess of agriculture.  She promises to live up to Ferrin's example in making the Sea Grove a home for the lost and broken.  She makes an immediate impact by providing Goodberries to the poorest workers for the nominal price of 1 copper piece each, which she donates to the town coffers.


She then spends a month researching the Sahuagin.
	Eliander's library has mentions in odd places, mainly history.  Sahuagin are coastal raiders, but they live under the water.  Taking over a series of caves from the Lizardfolk like they did isn't mentioned before.  They are usually enemies of Lizardfolk and hate sea elves.


There hasn't been much history of them near Saltmarsh or Keoland.  From historical accounts you determine that they were concentrated more in the southern waters of Jeklea Bay, where the Hold of the Sea princes is.  Recent journals and logbooks note a pattern of increased attacks on a north and western pattern.  When you line up the accounts with a map, you can see it's a more or less straight line towards their current stronghold.  And this migration has been taking place for the last fifteen years.

And then on to spying on Skerrin. Later she does more spying so I’ll put it all together at the end.

Then some time at Abby Isle. She asks the wizard Keledek for some help.
Keledek the Unspoken is a native of Ket (a kingdom in the Baklunish West), and dresses the part, in rich silk robes and a turban.  He is almost seven feet tall, gaunt and thin.  And he is extremely unfriendly.  He's brusque to the point of rudeness, and has no patience for "idiots wasting my time."  Which is pretty much everyone to him.
There's still trips back & forth to Abbey Isle on a regular basis.  The dunes have been cleared and a lighthouse is being constructed at the northern end.  A delegation of priests of St. Cuthbert of the Cudgel also take up residence on the island, intent to rebuild the abbey.
Arienh and Keledek take several trips back & forth to Abbey Isle, studying & researching for 4-5 days and then returning so he can pore over his library. He has her show him the Winding Way and the sea cave.  After the first trip, Arienh takes back all the books there so the priests of St. Cuthbert don't get them.  They would have preferred to burn them and she doesn’t make any friends among them.  Ownership & guardianship of the pillars is a contested subject.
From examining the pillars, reading the tomes, and consulting Keledek's library she discovers:
1)  Both sets of obelisks were constructed by the Seluoise.  The basalt obelisk in the center was built to contain a pinpoint connection between the Prime Material Plane and the Chained Oblivion.  It is a plug in the dike.  The writings are Seluoise spells of binding, translated into Celestial words but using Infernal script.  So letters of one language (infernal), used to write the words of another language (Celestial), which itself is a translation of a third language (Seluoise).
The four surrounding obelisks of grey with green specks were designed to contain the effects of the basalt obelisk.  A cage around a cage.  The potent effects of magic in this region is a result of the basalt obelisk.  It was held in check by the grey obelisks until the Scarlet Brotherhood toppled them.
Keledek lectures: "The Chained Oblivion, or Tharizidun as it is also known, is a force of nature.  In fact, it is the first force of nature.  Because before there can be something there must be nothing.  And that is what it is: a living nothing.
Of course isn’t alive like you or I, and while it is aware its mind is nothing like ours.  The aspect of it that can think is known as Tharizidun.  Just as your mind forms thoughts and is both a part of you and distinct from, say, your legs, Tharizidun is the name we use for the part of the Chained Oblivion we can comprehend.
All arcane magic crafted by the Seluoise taps into the Chained Oblivion, creating a pinprick of connection between it and existence.  Sometimes these pinpricks create lasting connections between the two.  Entropy always defeats existence, and left untouched the Chained Oblivion would pour into existence, unmaking it.  The basalt obelisk is meant to seal off that connection."
2)  The grey obelisks also serve a second function.  Carved on them, in Seluoise, are incredibly powerful spells.  Each pillar holds the following spell, one on each side:  Gate, Foresight, Imprisonment, and Wish.  Keledek thinks they will fade when cast, just like a spell scroll.  But he's not sure as these spells are more powerful than he can safely cast.  Furthermore, when they were toppled, many of the runes were destroyed.  The spells could in fact be uncastable, but it would take months of work to piece together the entire spell from the different sides (if that is possible) and transcribe the spells into a spellbook.
3)  Studying the books pretty much confirms what you know.  The Scarlet Brotherhood is summoning legendary creatures and connecting them to the Chained Oblivion.  As if a Kraken isn't enough, it would also be a living avatar of the Chained Oblivion. The Herald is meant to control these monsters by binding with them.  But at some point, the Scarlet Brotherhood went from studying the Chained Oblivion to worshipping it.  The Eye in the Deep went from a beast to control to a vessel of Tharzidun.  And the Herald went from the controller to a prophet of the Chained Oblivion.
Again, Keledek lectures:  "When the Suel Imperium warred with the Baklunish Empire, they tried to infuse a person with a shard of the Chained Oblivion.  It didn’t end well.  For anyone.
The Scarlet Brotherhood is attempting to do the same thing.  In a more refined manner, if you can believe that.  You see a mortal form is simply a poor vessel for the Chained Oblivion.  We are anathema to each other.
To understand, you have to understand the Wheel of the Cosmos:  Existence sits surrounded by an infinity of non-existence.  The Outer Planes are thought given form, the first step from non-existence.  The Inner Planes, the four elemental planes, are places of tangible matter.  The Prime Material Plane, the world as we know it, is the crucible of existence.  We are thought and matter coming together in an unending cycle of creation and change.  But even though this plane may change it is always one form of existence to another.
Tying existence and non-existence together is fundamentally impossible and the result is devastation.  The Scarlet Brotherhood is attempting to imbue a vessel that is not of the Prime Material Plane:  the Kraken.  The creature is a titan of the Elemental Plane of Water.  A living demigod.  They figure that it has the power to survive being tied to the Chained Oblivion.
The Herald is meant to be their control.  A human cannot survive being imbued with the Chained Oblivion, but perhaps it could control the vessel that is so imbued.  If the Kraken is the horse, the Herald is the rider.  And their plan is to control the rider.
It seems twelve years ago, they failed.  This ritual they cast is what drew my attention here.  I assumed it was connected to the nearby Tower of Zenopus that I have been investigating all this time.  The Brotherhood lost their would-be Herald, only to have found both her and the Kraken recently."
4)  The Scarlet Brotherhood is entirely focused on this project, which they refer to as the Great Work.  From journal accounts you can see that not all of them have been corrupted into worshipping the Chained Oblivion.  Many still see it as a purely arcane experiment.  This "Cult of Tharizidun" seems to be hidden from most of them.  It's unclear if the corruption goes all the way to the top (who then hide it from the majority of the rank and file) or if it simply a powerful and hidden faction inside the Brotherhood (and the highest authority is simply blinded by the potential power of the Great Work).
You can't tell because of how secretive the Scarlet Brotherhood is, even to each other.  But you do know that the priests of Abbey Isle were corrupted and they were periodically visited by auditors who were not.  Ozymandius was one of the corrupted priests.  Odium was one of these auditors whose mission to drop off Bayleaf was also an opportunity to check on progress, when he was trapped here by the Falling Star's attack.
She now knows Scarlet Brotherhood cultural norms - When making a Deception check to appear like a native you negate disadvantage.  You can train someone else with 1 week of instruction.  They make an Int check, you make a Wis check.
And finally more spying on Skerrin.
1)  You confirm that Skerrin pretty much runs the Solmar business, even Anders knows it.  Anders is content to make the major decisions and let Skerrin handle the day-to-day operations.  What Anders doesn't know is that Skerrin makes the major decisions too:  when Skerrin seeks a "decision" from Anders, he presents it in a way that Anders makes the decision that Skerrin wants.  A lot of times Skerrin will make a decision and then bring it to Anders.  Which makes it look like Skerrin carries out Anders' decisions very quickly.
2) You see Mr. Tobar, the man who assisted Skerrin in trying to blackmail Airell, and he matches Airell's description:  short, fat, older man who is bald except for a 'wreath' of white hair at the temples & back.  Tobar (most assuredly not his real name) works as a translator, but this isn't what he was hired for and he's terrible at it.  He was hired to pretend to be an accomplice of Airell, and he complains about now having to pretend to be a translator.  Skerrin has had to cover for him by having to secretly outsource the translation work.  Apparently, Tobar has been complaining about it the entire six weeks you were otherwise occupied because after a week or two, Skerrin gives Tobar money and tells him to leave.  Skerrin reports to Anders that Mr. Tobar was let go for substandard work.  Anders wants to contact Airell, to see if he's still interested in the job.
3)  The Solmar business is pretty much a sham.  On paper they sell salted fish as far and wide as the Free City of Greyhawk and the Kingdom of Aerdy, making insane profits.  In reality they go no further than the Hold of the Sea Princes, Gradsul, the Duchy of Ulek, and the Pomarj.
By saying that they trade in distant lands, where the round trip voyage can take a month or two, this gives them time to linger in places like Gradsul and the Sea Princes (where it only takes a week at most travel time).  This gives Skerrin's operatives plenty of time to gather intel or do whatever tasks he needs, or even visit a different place.  The supposed profits these trips make are simply money provided by whoever is backing Skerrin.
4)  Anders seems not to be in on whatever Skerrin is up to.  He really is just a naive guy who inherited a bunch of fortune from his family.  He is earnest, and actually not dumb, but very idealistic.  For example, he really does hate pirates (as any Saltmarsh native would).  And he thinks that Keoland should destroy the Sea Princes because they tolerate piracy and have an economy built on slavery.  But he doesn't stop to think about things like the cost (in gold and people) of conquest, or what would happen after the Sea princes are overthrown.
5)  Skerrin keeps most of the work very compartmentalized.  All of the employees know Skerrin is in charge, but most think the Solmar business is legitimate.  Ship captains, like Harer Zane, know that the business isn't legitimate but they think it's a simple smuggling operation.  They're in the dark as to Skerrin's affiliation.  The true inner circle is 4-5 men, who operate with wide latitude and know of Skerrin's true nature.
6)  Skerrin is also incredibly cautious.  He does no actual dealings in the Solmar house.  Most what is done is meetings are set up at some offsite location around town.  Whenever Skerrin receives anything written, he burns it immediately after reading.  But he does leave the Solmar residence quite a bit.  You haven't followed him far, because you're a slow spider, but you figure out that although he meets in a lot of places, he often visits Crabber's Cove.  He takes a lot more urgent meetings once Eliander returns (see below).
You can pursue your spying, or move on to research at Abbey Isle.  With the 6 weeks spent on the Sea Grove & spell castings, and the 6 weeks spent spying, that takes you through the months of Goodmonth, Harvester, and Patchwall.  The first two weeks into your spying on the Solmar house happens during the second half of Harvester.  Between Harvester and Patchwall is Brewfest. This is the autumn harvest festival, full of feasting and drinking.  It also signifies the beginning of the busy season for Saltmarsh (fishing happens year round here, and in winter the agrarian parts of Keoland desperately need the food imports).

About a week after Brewfest (during Pathwall), Eliander returns with news.  The king has chosen to intervene directly and is coming to Saltmarsh.  He'll arrive sometime in Sunsebb and will stay through the Needfest, the new year festival.
And then Arienh overhears an actual meeting of Skerrin’s
Many of Skerrin's meetings are brief, and over by the time you get there.  You do meet him one time at the docks, where you catch him speaking with a dark skinned man.  The man is informing Skerrin that they finally found someone on the ship willing to talk.
"The owners of the ship have been spread far and wide since the Battle of Abbey Isle," the man reports to Skerrin. "But this did give us a chance to approach our man.  The druid woman has been going back and forth between the Isle, he tells us.  Trying to figure out whatever the priests were working on.  She's removed the books."
Skerrin replies:  "Good.  Pay him well, and tell him to pass along every detail.  No matter how small."
The man acknowledges the order and the meeting ends.
A week later there's another meeting, at Crabber's Cove.  The issue is that the area is overrun with crabs, which attack a small rodent or an insect as food.  By the time you arrive though, the meeting is over.  The next week, you turn into a crab, but crawling over the mass of crabs takes time and the meeting is over by the time you get there.
It takes the third try before you manage to get there in time.  Skerrin is speaking with one of Eliander's men, who accompanied him to visit the king.  The man is giving a rundown of Eliander's preparations for the king's arrival, including both Duke Feldrin and Duke Luschan of Gradsul.
Skerrin sends the man along and then leaves himself a few minutes later.  After a few moments, a mist rises through the floorboards and coalesces into an impossibly pale man dressed in muddy rags.  His long platinum white hair is tangled into dreadlocks and his eyes glow red.  With amazing quickness, his hand snatches your crab shape and he holds it up to his eye.
"I have named every crab in the cove," he says.  "You are not one of them."
Thus Arienh meets a vampire…
Long story short (too late) he is a vampire whom we will call Crazy because he wouldn’t give his name. He fought under the demigod Iuz in the kingdom of Iuz far to the north. 600 years ago they marched to war against all of the Flaenese (including Keoland). Side note, Xendros is from Iuz.  Seven of his advisors and commanders conspired against him and he was defeated. He vowed to hunt them down and kill their families. Now there are only two family lines left.+
Crazy's father was one of Iuz's betrayers and Crazy turned him into Iuz. 300 years ago Zagig Yragerne (no idea his name) trapped Iuz again and then 70 years ago someone let him out. 55 years ago Crazy moved his Coffin 'O Dirt to Saltmarsh. The descendants of one of the betrayers was here too at that time.
A priest of St. Cuthbert tracked him here and challenged him. He failed of course, but with his dying breath he called upon his God and St Cuthbert answered. Crazy is now trapped in a shack in Crabbers Cove.
He can only be released by someone "pure of heart" who brings him out of the shack and gives him some dirt from a place that can be his new home. He recommends dirt from the Hool Marshes since that would give him access to Port Torvin and the holds of the Sea Princes. In trade he has lots of knowledge about Skerrin who holds lots of meetings in his shack.
Melissa isn't sure about letting out a vampire but Arienh is totally up for making the trade. She goes to get the dirt and comes back the next evening. Here is what she finds out:
Skerrin works for the Scarlet Brotherhood. He came to Saltmarsh 12 years ago after a debacle on Abby Isle concerning the herald. He runs a spy ring to watch all of the town council except Eda who never tells anyone anything.
He orchestrated Petra Solmar's death.
He is very interested in what the king will do now that he has arrived in Salt marsh. He would like the king gone before he finds out anything about Skerrin's activities. He seems to think this is urgent. Something happened recently on the isle (we killed the SB there) and Skerrin's operations are severely curtailed now.
Skerrin does not like our whole crew, particularly Arienh.
He meets with associates here in this shack. Two lackies bring people to see him, both people Arienh knows from her other spying. Urdem (stocky with scars, short blond hair) and Liup (taller, athletic, dark-haired green eyes, big nose).
He was upset about something that happened with a gnome in Seaton.
About a year ago he sent a smuggler (Herer Zane) to take someone from from Seaton to Abby isle (Bayleaf). Herer Zane was not pleased about it.
Skerrin is violent and enjoys killing. He killed Ferrin. He wanted to know how much Arienh knew but was frustrated by how unsuccessful he was. He is quite put out that she has been here under his nose for 12 years without him knowing.
He is not always successful in his endeavors. He is trying to find out about stuff going on in the Styes but his people keep dying and he has not found out anything substantial.
A few months ago he had his leg injured by someone (Joza). He wants to track her down. She was masquerading as a priest but is actually a thief or assassin. He tracked her to Gradsul but then couldn't pursue it because of events here in Saltmarsh.
Skerrin started as a servant of Anders while he was in Greyhawk. Anders recommended him to his family and then 10 years ago he killed Petra Solmar.
The SB is basically trying to recreate the Suloise empire. They want racial purity and magic bloodlines. The Suloise were mostly wizards and the brotherhood are mostly sorcerers.
Arienh completes the deal with the vampire and it takes off. She goes home and has a large mug of very strong ale.
To do: kill Skerrin slowly
Mornie and Airell
Mornie and Airell headed to Burle to verify Skerrig’s “story” about Eliander.
On the way they were attacked by four boar were people.
They were helped by a treant (Tangle Bough) and three archers (Kiara Shadowbreaker was the leader) to kill them off. Kiara noticed that both of them were not surprised by the appearance of the treant and made the statement that this wasn’t the first treant that they had seen. In the following conversation, Mornie and Airell realized that IT killed off the treant (Wander Roots) brother of Tangle Bough when they killed off the attack tree in the swamp.
Kiara explained that she knew Eliander and tested the two of them by trying to catch them in a lie that Eliander’s leg was taken off by a Troll instead of an Owlbear. She explained that Eliander did spend a lot of time learning about history and languages after he lost his leg. The king did force Eliander to go to Saltmarsh.
Mornie and Airell asked Kiara to give them some sort of info that would help them prove that Eliander was who he said he was. Mornie showed Kiara the scrolls and Kiara couldn’t read it but recognized it as Abyssal. K said that if someone attacks Mornie or Airell in two weeks or more that one of them (Kiara’s group) was a spy for the Scarlet Brotherhood.
Kiara is an avid conspiracy theorist.
Kiara said, "The Duke of Gradsule (Luschan) disobeyed the King and attacked Monmurgh. The King summoned him back and Luschan said, “I’ll get to it.” The king died before he returned. Duke Luschan wanted to be king. Everyone else said NO! The poorest royal to be promoted was King Kimbertos of Scotti. The province he was from was the Barony of Greyhill. It’s entirely in the Dreadwood.
Kiara said that King Scotti went to Greyhill in the north during a campaign when some elementalist of fire, or when the pact (Wild Flame Pact) came to be against the monsters that came out of the Dreadwood. This was a terrible incursion. Kinbertos was sent as a Baron’s son with a contingent to help push back the threat and push back the Cult of the Wild Flame. He knew Eliander and actually was Eliander’s junior in this campaign. Eliander and Kimbertos knew each other personally. Kimbertos was the only one who could tell Eliander that he had to serve in Saltmarsh.
Mornie and Airell are invited to attend the funeral of Wander Roots since they would be able to tell the story of how his life ended. They first travel to Burle and then go to the Ironhills in the Yeomenry. The Javan River is the border between Keoland and the Yeomenry. On the way they have two fights with Direwolves and a green hag. Airell takes the potions from the hag’s place to be identified later by Kellen. They find a mummified child’s hand, a suspicious big tongue, a jar of powder with words scrolled on parchment that says “livers,” and a bronze mirror that is cracked like it is glass.
On the tenth day they reach the river. Mornie is super suspicious of the guy taking people across the river. She threatens him with a knife and he then shows that his raft crosses and isn’t going to fall apart. Kiara, Monrie, and Airell decide to cross with Wander Roots. The young man then yells, “Dragon!!” and they then see a copper dragon comes breathing gas. Wander Roots and Kiara do not pass the test. Wander Roots starts moving slower. Mornie makes it to the other side. Airell does make it to shore. The copper dragon captures Kiara. Wander Roots, obviously affected by the gas, still is able to make it to the shore. The dragon then picks up Airell, but is not causing any damage at all to either him or Kiara. Airell realizes that the dragon is younger than a century (basically a teenager). The dragon then drops off Kiara and Airell and turns back into the red-headed boy who was going to take them across the river. He introduces himself as Wydaus and Airell remembers that copper dragons (especially young ones) have a sense of humor.
At the funeral, there are many treants, a unicorn (Kejal), a werebear (Garik), wood elves, centaurs, dryads, sprites. Waiting for two days. Mornie talks to the unicorn and Airell talks to the werebear. The unicorn communicates half in her mind and half in elvish. The werebear and Airell have a drink off, but Airell doesn’t drink any of it. Airell “drank” a werebear under the table.
The Great Druid of Sheldemar Valley - Reyna Yargrove - is the last to arrive. She’s a half-elf. She conducts the ceremony (week long) where they go through every aspect of Tangle Bough’s life, stretching 6,384 years. At the penultimate event, Mornie tells a very matter-of-fact event of what happened at the end. Airell helps by explaining the tragic event of Tangle Bough’s final hours. Reyna finishes up the story (which take a half day) and all are greeted with reverent silence.  At the end of the funeral, everybody is encouraged to give a gift to everyone else. Mornie gives up the flag of her ship (which she cannot remember) to Wydhaus. Airell gives up the signet ring that was given to him by his mentor to Garik. Kejal gives Mornie a pot of yellow ink that is barely legible at first but becomes black after an hour. There is enough ink for eight letters. Garik gives to Airell a smooth, curved shard of an ancient red dragon claw which can give off sparks. It is warm to the touch. The final part of the ceremony has Reyna blessing the font of water of the lake. Those who do gain a potion of heroism (both Mornie and Airell did). It smells of rose and honey. The funeral concludes and the trip back takes 11 days.
Wydhaus approaches them both and remarks that he noticed something and wanted to tell them. He said, “Are you two aware that you are walking around with ancient Suloise artifacts?” Airell’s bow has an inscription inside that says "Warden of the Fore." Mornie has “The Memory of Ruin” that was made from the bone of a Terrasque. He said that these are very powerful artifacts. They are currently in a dormant state. If they are awakened, Mornie and Airell would be able to fully unleash their powers. Wydhaus wanted us to know and said that they got a good deal. Mornie asked how they could get in contact with him again and Wydhaus said that he lives at the base of the Jotens in the Little Hills.
Once they return to Burle, Kiara hosts a dinner and offers to continue to teach Airell Arcana. Kiara told them to ask Eliander to tell them about the time when Kiara, him, and Kimbertos got drunk and decided to tie pink ribbons all over Wander Roots while he was sleeping. She said to have him tell what Kimbertos said to Castellan Endriver to get them out of trouble. If Eliander answers with what Kimbertos said, he is an imposter. Eliander NEVER got drunk with them.
Airell stays and gets more instruction from Kiara. Mornie stays and works with a blacksmith to craft 10 Walloping Shot.
To do:
Find out about the artifacts
Confirm Eliander’s innocence
Confirm Skerrin is evil
Mornie
Mornie returns to Saltmarsh during Patchwall, a week after Eliander returned. She found out that Eliander got an audience with the King and the King is now going to go to Saltmarsh. Eliander gives Mornie access to his library. Mornie uses the suggestion from Kiara to prove Eliander’s innocence and it is proven that he is not the Scarlet Brotherhood spy. Eliander and Mornie discuss Skerrin and Eliander makes it very clear that if Skerrin disappears or has anything done to him without true evidence that he is going to hold Mornie responsible. Mornie makes it clear that she will be doing things to find out the truth, but they wouldn’t be the way that he would want. Mornie learns about the history of the region during the rest of Patchwall and the first half of Ready’reat.
Mornie also learns about her magical weapon by Keledek’s library. He does demand 50 gold for access to the library. Mornie barters with him using the scrolls of the magic tree instead of paying. She negotiates that they would be able make a copy of the scroll without having to pay at a later date. He agrees.
Mornie does not find anything about her sword specifically, but she does find info on how to awaken the Suoloise artifacts. Each item has its own way of being awoken. A ritual has to be performed where it is established that the task that the artifact was supposed to do is needed, e.g. if the artifact was supposed to protect a certain bloodline, the ritual would require a piece of hair from that bloodline. Once the ritual is completed, then the person has to go on the quest and bond with the weapon. If it works, it will awaken, you will get its power. If it doesn’t, nothing changes and you’ll likely die because you are at great risk. Most of the weapon artifacts have a “protector” role. The Suoloise were an empire of wizards so the actual weapons are usually made for the protectors of the wizards.
Mornie then works with Krag about the history of the people of Saltmarsh. The cemetery has become the “refugee” camp and Krag puts them to work. Krag asks for a donation of 25 gp, which Mornie gives readily. The town has grown from 5,000 to 6,000 people in six months. The King, Duke Luschan, and Duke Feldrin have arrived at Saltmarsh.
At the end of her time with Krag, Mornie learns about a new person, Ma Garret who has taken over the Sea Grove. He doesn’t like her at all.
To do:
Find out about the artifacts
Confirm Eliander’s innocence
Confirm Skerrin is evil
Find out why people are disappearing in Crabber’s Cove

Bought Portable Hole
Paid Falling Start 3 months advance after downtime
Saltmarsh updates
Defeat is disastrous for Ysgolier. Gellen cuts him out of the deal. Goods are now being unloaded directly at the Abbey Isle and delivered to Saltmarsh. Saltmarsh gets more money! Port Torvin becomes ghost town.
Abbey Isle - Skull dunes are cleaned out with cannons, bye bye skeletons… It took a month to kill all the skeletons.
Tows start building a lighthouse on the North end of Abbey Isle. There’s a lot of traffic back and forth. Military and trade network. No one from the Sea Princes is allowed in Saltmarsh.
Massive economic boom. Town increases in size a lot. Saltmarsh navy, including FS, patrols the bay keeping the region say. Preventing Port Torvin from assembling new fleet. Lighting towers are still working.
Slowly pushing back the saugain away from Abbey Isle. Lizardfolk are helping.
New Saltmarshian neighborhoods - Salter dock = Downtown, Upclif = Rich secion, Bridgers = Old town, Downcliff = new section, slum, Hoole Hill = new town, wealthy people who come in start to build there, Blackbrew sted = coffee farm. There’s a wall left from the dwarves called the Long wall. Old wall is called the Wee wall now. There’s Keep on the Marsh, dwarves built it as a sign of goodwill. It’s a castle in the marsh.

Town cemetery is a refugee camp now. Very poor workers sleep there. Priest of St Cuthbert is making rounds there helping the poor.

Bay has a new name - Mutiny bay.
St Cuthbert’s priests don’t like magic. They’ve moved into the poor section. They also want to rebuild the Abbey on the island. They don’t want anyone to temper with the ruins.

Plastered hair is the fashion statement now.
We get free drinks in most bars around town. There are songs about us all.
Sharking hour is when Kellen is drunk.
Nicknames: Arienh the Stormcaller. MK, Airell and Kellen - Boarders Three. Brave Kellen. Mornie the Admiral.
Not a Hag! A family of poachers moves into Sea Grove. Run by older woman named Ma Garret. She is a priestess of the goddess Ehlonna of the Forest. Reestablish the place where anyone can come, in Ferrin’s memory. She sets up an oven and salt evaporation still and has people working there. She plants mulberry bushes and goodberries (weird, they are magic creations, usually they can’t be grown). She sells goodberries for 1cp each and donates money. Goodberry gin, sweet meat pies - not from children! Everyone is put to work.

Eliander returns a week after Brewfest. King decided to personally step in. King is coming to Saltmarsh at the year’s end. Duke Feldrin is coming, Duke Luchan of Gradsul is coming to. Feldrin is married to Luchan’s niece.

Two weeks before Needfest King Scotti marches into town with a thousand soldiers. Luchan and Feldrin both sail in with a combined fleet of 11 ships and 600 men. Luchan is in Upcliff in Eliander’s house. His people are in the town. King is by the Longwall and keep on the swamp, his people are camping on the side of the town.
King and Eliander are close.

Mornie, Kellen and Arienh are in town when Duke’s people arrive.
Mk and Xendros arrive on Sunsebb 16th.
Airell arrives on Sunsebb 20th.

Kiorna Kester made us a set of leather armor from hide from Thousand teeth. Thousand scales goes to Mornie.



Session 20 - 8/22/2020

We are all summoned to an audience with the king. The guards take our weapons which no one is pleased about, but no one makes a fuss. Because we want to live. As we enter we see the King talking to Duke Luschan of Gradsul. They are looking at maps of the greater Sheldomar Valley. They are surrounded by the king’s outriders. Also attending the King are Sir Eddock Amberhill (a holy symbol on his sword, looks like a killer) and Carden Blacksworn (a herald, busily writing the whole time).

The King gives us hospitality wine and tells us about the Hill and Stone Giants who have been coming out of the Crystal Mist Mountains for the last few years. They are oracles who consider our land the stuff of scary dreams and very few of them usually come to the surface. However something is scaring them out of their mountains.

Airell asks why he is telling us this. The King replies that he needs Duke Felton’s wealth and influence to fight the giants and can’t afford to make him an enemy. If we had lost the battle for Saltmarsh the King would have turned a blind eye (asshole) to whatever the Duke doled out as punishment. However, since we won the King can attempt to find a good resolution (how noble).

The King must now ask us six questions and we must make a vow to tell the king the truth. Mornie agrees first and as she steps forward Sir Eddock flinches. We all agree to tell the truth. He asks the following questions and after some debate and misremembering we have the following answers (paraphrased):

Is Gellan a smuggler? Duh.
Is Gellan a pirate? We don’t know for sure (but, I mean, come on).
Did we board and capture the ships of Duke Felton? Yup.
How was the truce between us and the Duke broke? He was a dick, threatened Mornie, MK stepped in. With a sword.
What are our intentions with the Falling Star? Hands off our ship. (Kellan: “No clue.”) We won’t be pirates though.
Do we vow to accept his judgement without resorting to piracy or rebellion? Ummm… yes (obligatory Hamilton quote). Are our answers to your satisfaction?

Kellan asks the King if he plans to do anything about the Sea Princes. He says they have the gunpowder so, no.

We leave.

24th of whatever this month is.

The council, King, Dukes, and half the town arrive for the announcement of the King’s judgement. We are “invited” to be there and are seated up front. The herald steps forward with a big book and reads a highly modified version of what happened.

Duke Feldron is made out to be wise and having great foresight and is rewarded with going to fight the giants with the king (I’m a General! Wheee!). The Duke is smug until he realizes we don’t give a shit that he got promoted. Kellan sticks her tongue out at him.

Eliander is promoted into his place and becomes a noble. Bye bye Eliander.

Saltmarsh is now a free city with all the freedom and responsibilities that entails. Good luck!

The King appoints Sir Pierson (pretty boy with the hair) to the council. Sir Pierson is surprised and unhappy. Later when he talks to the King he says he wants to go with Duke Luschan, but the Duke clearly doesn’t want him.

As the celebration gets into full swing, we hear whispers in the crowd. Only Mornie knows what it means. Her old teacher, Nenredhe is there. Mornie tells Airell in thieves cant to watch her back and she follows Nenredhe. The rest of us see Airell follow Mornie and tromp after them. Mornie and Arienh (as a spider) follow Nenredhe into a bar where she vanishes, but left behind a knife pinning a note to a chair. It says “Healer”. We all confer then head to Arienh’s house. Mornie with spider-Arienh on her shoulder, Kellan, Airell, and MK invisible. Nenredhe is in front of the door, invisible. She appears suddenly and seems to see MK and Kellan despite the invisibility. Airell is his usual sneaky self and seems to be unnoticed.

Nenredhe asks Mornie if she is enjoying playing hero. They go inside, and Airell sneaks after them. Arienh is still spidering on Mornie’s shoulder and Kellan and MK are left outside (of the room where it happens). Nenredhe is not happy with Mornie who apparently has not been doing her job, namely reporting on Kellan and MK. She needs to be reporting regularly and to be prepared to, if necessary, eliminate the gnome and the demon woman.

Nenredhe also has an assignment for Mornie. She goes to Arienh’s secret door and opens it (bitch) to let out Efraim. He needs help. His bodyguard, Garm, has been taken and is to be killed because they think he is the Lantern Ghost Murderer. They caught him standing over a body with a knife. Pretty solid grounds for suspicion.

Mornie agrees to help. Efraim tells her that in early summer, shortly before we arrived in the Styes, Garm had been having nightmares that roughly correspond to the murders. Sounds like evidence of guilt to me, why are we helping him? I digress.

It is decided that Nenredhe and Efraim will both return to the Styes with us. They leave and head back to the King’s healers’ tents where they have been staying. MK and Kellan come inside. Arienh goes back to being human and immediately closes the secret door. Muttering angrily.

Mornie explains that she  died at the battle of Monmurg, has no memories of her past life (except that one episode while we were in the Styes), and was brought back by Nenredhe who then trained her to be a spy and occasional assassin. Drawmage is the head of the order and the only male. Nenredhe is the priestess of Wei Jass and does all the training. Mornie has never seen her leave before because she is skilled AF.

Arienh asks why she was supposed to watch Kellan and Mk specifically. Because they are weird, she replies. Everyone is fine with this answer.

It is decided we can’t leave until after the Saltmarsh elections and because the Falling Star is being cleaned. Our crew wants to party during Needfest so they will take us to the Styes on the first of Needfest and go back to Saltmarsh with one of the sending stones. We will call them when we are ready to be picked up. Coolest valet service ever.


Session 21 - 24th?   25th? Of this month? 26th of Sunsebb

After organizing everything with the crew, Kellan headed to the pub to drink her woes of not being able to trust anyone. Mornie wanted to mend the relations in order to make sure that they would be able to still work together,  so she followed Kellan to the pub.

Mornie told Kellan about a failed mission to the Styes where Mornie put the mission ahead of the safety and training of her trainee. The end result was Mornie barely getting herself and her trainee out alive. She told Kellan that Nenredhe told her that the mission is not as important as the life of her trainee, which was the opposite of what she had been trained to do. This was pivotal in how she now views all of the crew. Mornie claimed that she would never let something like that happen again.

Kellan said that she understood Mornie was trying to convey, however, she still doesn’t trust her. Kellan then asked if she could inspect Mornie magically. Mornie agreed and Kellan noticed that Mornie is a form of a revenant. While being inspected, Mornie told Kellan that Mr. Dorie has manticores and a hobgoblin army (good grief!). Mr. Dorie also didn’t have his disgusting “condition” three years ago. (He really needs to be dispatched.)

Kellan went to Keledek to research about manticores and conditions like Mr. Dorie’s. Keledek (amidst much grumbling) let her do her research, but only for an afternoon!

Kellan found out that manticores have tail spikes, the body of a lion, wings like a dragon, and a human face with three rows of teeth (wouldn’t that be a bit hard to do in a human face….just sayin’…). They are not smart, but are smart for being predators. They attack at night and their tails have quills they can shoot.

There were multiple curses and afflictions that were similar to Mr. Dorie’s, but no evidence came out as to which type it was. The varieties were from being bitten by certain fish fold to a god imbuing this condition as a blessing. What crazy person would want his affliction as a blessing? Buggers!

Refrum showed up at Arienh’s door and provided extra treatments for the red face at the Styes. He apologized for hiding her secret room and awkwardly walked away.

Arienh and Mornie get goggles for everyone from Kiorna Keser.

After the two days are up, it’s the day of the elections! We were in the room where it happened.

Hubrorin Juscare (halfling priest of St. Cuthbert) blessed the elections with a lot of pomp and circumstance. We are considered residents now and could vote! The King and Eliander are there to oversee the elections. Eda, Gellan, and Anders are all re-elected.

Eda pulls Mornie and Arienh aside and asks why we are leaving. Arienh says it is a healing mission, which Eda doesn’t believe for a minute. Kimbertos comes over and hears about the “mission” and offers 90 gold for all the sailing crew as well as the promise to save a cask of ale. He wanted to make them feel better for missing the first day of Needfest.

Nenredhe and Refrum come along with a new person. Her name is Eri-Xanaphia Aaliyax. She has a winged cat and obviously recognizes and despises Mornie. Mornie tells Kellan that this was the trainee that she told her about with the nickname “Airhead.” Kellan shrugs and dismisses this information.

We set sail.

Kellan talked to Refrum about Jarme. She asked about how to use the oil of etherealness. Refrum told Kellan that Jarme started having the nightmares the evening after MK threw him down the stairs from our “fight.”

After sunset, a wyvern attacks, killing one of the sailors. We killed it, thank goodness, when Airell shot his arrow into its throat while Arienh was in its grasp.

After arriving at the Styes, Captain Sohral has the sending stone so that we can call her back. She will take the crew back to celebrate the rest of Needfest. They will come the day after we call them. If we do not call them in a couple of weeks, they will show up the 3rd of next month and return every day for 7 days.

We hike in to drop off Nendrehe at the manor. Mornie notices that they were not stopped by the sentries at the regular spots. We decided to send out the owls and the tressyon to scout ahead. Arienh turns into a panther to start scouting as well.

Carnage is awaiting us as we hike in quietly. Bodies of trainees litter the ground. They were defenseless when the attack happened.

It is obvious that the manor was taken by surprise by quadrupeds and something snake-like. Many of the prints are a week old and the most recent prints move back to the Styles.

We then hear crashing sounds coming from the manor.

Session 22 - 9/4/2020
Facts:
Aberrations named Chuul that look like giant lobsters attacked the mansion. There are some tracks of snake-like creatures, but we haven’t seen any.
We killed 2.
It is very much not normal to see them here.
Everyone in the mansion is dead in their nightgowns.
Chuul took everything magical (mostly books, but a few items too) to the secret basement and piled it there.

Weird things that happened:
Mornie’s gun shouted “Headshot!”
Eri asked if it was friends with the Raindemon.
Drawmij’s corpse is not a real corpse. Some sort of cloning magic, so he might be still alive.
Nenredhe teleported away with Refrum to a “safe location”

Hypothesis
Nenredhe thinks this was done by the same people who framed Jarm.

Other things that happened, and might be important to remember:
Nenredhe is a sarcastic bitch
She’s ordering Mornie around, and threatened to dispose of her if she doesn’t obey.
“Training books” are diaries with very detailed descriptions of people's lives.
MK named dead lobster Jean-Claude

Next tasks:
Bury the bodies and burn the books. Because Nenredhe said so.
Secure Jarm
After that Eri should go hide in the woods and wait for Nenredhe to contact her.


Session 23 - 9/12/2020 In which we politely collect information.

We burn the bodies and bury the books. No, wait…

Kellan takes a few books.

We head out to the Styes and arrive around dusk. Arienh hears a voice in her head that sounds like Refrum. It is Refrum, doing a terribly inefficient job at using a communication spell. With many extra words he tells her Jarme was arrested by constable Jute who is “one of the decent people” and Nenredhe adds (succinctly) that Jute is a large woman with blond hair and that Jarme was held in Hopene’er. Ask for Emil Trantor.

We are cold and wet as we pass a half sunken tower. Arienh checks on Mornie who is not having any flashbacks. Kellan is apprehensive but not crazy like last time.

As we try to cross the bridge at the High Quarter the guards stop us as before. We know how it works now and bribe them to get across safely. We see a mummer’s parade about one of the bosses (Thornwell the sorceress who raised the tower) and another about Mr. Dory who is depicted as a noble Keolander soldier, defender of the workers. Kellan casts Silent Image creepy crawlies all over the mummer’s Mr. Dory mask. It goes as well as could be expected. The mummer gets beat up by the guards, Kellan is arrested, MK jumps in and Kellan casts suggestion. Pretty much standard.

Meanwhile Airell has left to break into Refrum’s empty, deserted hospital. We all catch up. Mornie and Aerie scout the perimeter and see a long whale sized shape in the water. Mornie jumps in but can’t see the shape any better. It disappears. Inside, the rest of us explore upstairs. We see Jarme’s room (he likes fairy tales) and Refrum’s room/workshop (no magic).

We go out to enjoy the Needfest party and gather info from the masses.
We learn:
Jarme had already been hung and burned a few weeks ago.
There was another murder a few days ago in the Lower Quarter.
When they jung Jarme he was ranting about how he was innocent and the Whisperer made him do it.
The city has four areas with different bosses and ways of celebrating Needfest:
Alchemy Quarter - Mr. Dory; fireworks, expects appreciation
High Quarter - Rashlin; I missed what he did for Needfest.
Low Quarter - Sluris; fun but dangerous party
Merchant Quarter - Thornwell; doesn’t even try.
Sleris and Thornwell are trying to take over neighborhoods from Dory. Or maybe he traded them to get Refrum and Jarme hung.
The murderer was called the Lantern Murderer because no one could catch him. They just saw a lantern and people died.

Kellan throws up a drink, she might have the Water Sickness (if so, she will be dead in 3-5 days. No cure).

Mornie tries to find out about the whale thing. Some cringe worthy “flirting” happens (in a cowboy accent) in which the npc is a dick. Mornie takes fake drinks so as not to become intoxicated.

Airell picks some pockets and discovers that high rolls don’t help much when the people are poor as dirt.

Arienh tries lesser restoration on Kellan but it doesn’t seem to work.

We go back across the water to the Alchemy Quarter and see the whale shape again. Arienh’s octopus sees a catfish like creature - three eyes in a vertical row, tentacles.

The creature tries to eat the octopus but vanishes and the octopus is fine. The thing is not invisible, just gone.

Water sickness takes Mornie and Airell, but Kellan is now able to keep water down. Mornie can go without drinking, but Airell is now on a clock. MK checks our water and it is not poisonous. Arienh casts lesser restoration on Airell, but it doesn’t work.

Next day - 3rd of Needfest?

We go to find Emil at the asylum. Airell says we have a crazy gnome. Arienh says we have questions about Jarme.

She takes us into the asylum/prison and tells us 20-50 people are here on average. Usually it’s 400 but the Water Sickness has hit hard. As for Jarme, she says he spent his time here ranting about the whisperer and takes us to his room which is covered in drawings. A chained kraken, the Styes with the kraken attacking, a multi tailed fish (which Kellan recognizes as an aboreth, the same creature we have been seeing), and a wrecked ship with buildings built around it.

We learn:
 Mr. Dory was the only one allowed to see Jarme and no one else was present.
Mr. Dory came once and Refrum tried to come but wasn’t allowed to see him.
The drawings started as soon as he arrived.
Jarme said the whisperer was going to make someone else murder next.
Someone was killed 4 days ago in a similar way as the Lantern Murderer did.
Mr. Dory was the one who pushed for Jarme to be hung/hanged and the body burned.

We leave. Kellan tells us that the aboreth can change people. Like possibly cause the condition that Mr. Dory has. It could be related to the aboritions at the Manor. We go find Jute, the constable in the Lower Quarter, the slum of the Styes. Which, considering the state of the rest of the town, is really saying something. From her we learn:
She found Jarme with the bloody knife.
He wasn’t in his right mind, more like someone waking from sleepwalking.
She believes he thinks he didn’t do it.
The recent murder Mr. Dory tried to cover up as just another knifing.
The body of the recent murder was cut up the same as the other murders, buchered alive like an animal. No parts missing.
Mr. Dory had the latest body taken to Sleriss who runs the mortuary.
No pattern to who or where they were killed. Not all near the water.
Arienh and Mornie find tracks from the water leading to or from the place that the body was. They look the same as the serpentine tracks we found at the Manor.

Jute looks weirdly like MK.

We go to the lighthouse and find the beached ship.

Next session goals - Yippee ki yay mutherfuckers.
To do
Confirm that Skerrin is evil and kill him slowly
Find out about the artifacts
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross. Airell wants his cloak back.
Find the Kraken? - Not in the cave
Cure Airell before he dies of the Water Sickness
Find out who killed everyone at the Manor (Nenrethe thinks it was the same people who wanted to kill Jarme and Refrum)
Find out the following from Mr. Dory:
Why did he cover up the knifing?
Why did he question Jarme alone and allow no one else to see him?
Why is he gunning for Jarme and Refrum?
What are you trying to hide (Burr)?

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Why can Kellan drink water again?
What does the aboleth want and is it being controlled by someone?
Why did Mornie’s gun shout “headshot”?
What happened to the real Drawmije?

Completed
Rescue Randall (or possibly kill him and the other pirates, TBD)
Do something about Yusgrolir’s impending attack
Get the Duke out of Saltmarsh. Dead or alive. Possibly ask to deal with the wife
Replace Kellan’s components - Done
Get Rat’s Tail - Done
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil - Done
Go to Abbey Isle - Done
Figure out what to do with the Falling Star - keep it
Find out who was in Airell’s house - Skerrin
Interrogate Abbey prisoners
Prepare for Yusgrolir’s attack
Take Sending Stones back from Gellan
Find a way to pay the FS crew long term
Find out if Eliander is really Eliander

Answered(ish) Questions
Who is Mr Tobar and why did Skerrin give Airell a look?
Why is Anders so attached to Skerrin?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?
How do we deal with the Duke, Yusgrolir, Gellan, etc without having to spend the rest of the campaign being true pirates, running a smuggling ring or dukedom, or otherwise getting tangled up in politics? Which none of us are good at.
Session 24 (a.k.a. We die without Airell) - 9/26/2020
Standing in front of the creepy ship.
Step 1 - climb down to the plank. There's a bunch of trash and clumpy mud down there. Yuck.
Airell is not feeling well from the water sickness. He’s hanging back and hiding.

We see two people in cloaks stand next at the main deck in front of the cabin.

Step 2. Go closer and maybe talk to the creatures. They look very very wet. Water dripping from their clothes wet, and they don’t react to us at all.
Main deck has piles of trash with a path set through it, leading to the door.

Mornie tries to talk to them. They attack. They look translucent, mucusy and gross, and definitely not human. We fight.
Kellen totally fudges Fear, hits MK, MK’s sword counterspells and fails, so MK is frightened. And monsters don’t care. MK runs into the door inside and stops being scared.
Aboleth shows up behind us.
MK turns into a demon and fireballs everyone. Kellen is weirdly fine after that. And then she's not…
Arienh wildshapes into a bear ape, but that doesn’t save her for long.
MK does another fireball and drops half the party.
Arienh takes a bunch of damage and drops too…
MK grapples Mornie. Mornie shoots point blank, and MK goes unconscious. Her gun goes “Boom! Headshot!” Again.
Turns out Aboleth doesn’t want us dead. Scum stabilizes everyone in a very gross and creepy way.
Mornie is the last person standing and tries to maneuver, but fails. We are all down…
Mucusy people are taking us away into a pool of water where the Aboleth is waiting for us. We breathe in the water, choke on it, but then our lungs shift and change and suddenly we are able to breathe. Our skin turns translucent and slimy. We hear the whispering voice in our minds “You are mine now…”.
And we turn into super gross creatures that live underwater. Just great.

Session 25 (a.k.a. We don’t die!) - 10/10/2020
Gross. Disgusting. We are breathing underwater and Sgothgah is forcing us to submit to its will.

Mornie submits first. Arienh and Eri are able to resist for one more day before submitting. Kellen and MK, it turns out, are already under its influence. That explains their behavior during the fight. Stupid mind control.

We are subject to its will. It let’s us “do what we want” as long as it doesn’t go against its wishes.

What does it want? Well, that’s easy. It wants us to kill off the aboleths who are there to kill the kraken and it. Easy peasy, right?

Let me make this clear - it wants five of us to go into an underwater lair, kill off two aboleths and save a kraken. Why? Because it’s obsessed with the Unchained Oblivion.

Lovely. Anyone say TPK?

Oh, and the sixth person in our party is missing. Airell disappeared when we went down to scout out the ship temple. Who knows if he survived the water sickness. Hopefully he did. If anyone could survive on his own, it would be Airell.

We spend the fourth (Corey...Godsday?) resting and recovering from our battle. Eri thought it would be a good idea to ask Sgothgah two questions (one being about the location of her familiar) and she got slapped down hard...psychically. Mornie recognized that Sgothgah would only answer questions about the upcoming battle. She asked it how we could hurt the aboleths. It said that aboleths are susceptible to damage from spells and lots of attacks.

It also said that one of the aboleths was called the “sovereign” while the second one was the “enforcer.”
Mornie then asked who else was going to be attacking the aboleths. Sgothgah replied with an ominous, “You.”

The following day, we went under water to the place where the kraken was being held. So strange being able to breathe water, which was a side effect of being taken over by Sgothgah. The aboleths detected us coming and kicked up a lot of debris to block our site.
Arienh sent in her familiar to find out the location and the familiar didn’t last long.

After getting our bearings, we headed into the area, following Sgothgah’s orders. The enforcer and superior aboleths were waiting for us.

Turns out, when you are attacked, the compulsion placed by Sgothgah can potentially be lifted. Hallelujah! Mornie was the first one to be freed and it turns out that the others recognized when she left their “consciousness.” So disturbing. One by one, the rest of the party was freed, except MK.

Sgothgah, in the middle of the battle, went to the kraken’s prison and freed it. For some reason it believed that the kraken would listen to it...it was wrong! The kraken then wrapped its tentacles around each of the aboleths and started making life very difficult for them. MK, in all her fury, took out the enforcer all on her own. Mornie took out Sgothgah, yelling at it to get out of her head, and Arienh took out the superior using her thorn whip.

Airell found the party and was blasted by a trap in the underground lair. He tried to hit one of the aboleths. It was a relief to see that he was alive, and free from the water sickness.

A strange occurrence did happen in the middle of the battle: Kellen was able to either control or talk to the kraken. It didn’t last for long, but her eye was spinning and she appeared to be talking to it.

Arienh also can control water now. At one point during the battle (in the midst of summoning animals), she was able to rid the area of water. It definitely provided a small advantage to the party for a short time. That was, until she lost her concentration.

The party experienced kraken ink (which is poisonous!), grappling, mind blasts, and just disgusting mucus. After the superior was killed, the kraken escaped, badly hurt, and we let it go. Even though it was a juvenile kraken, it was still very powerful. We will definitely be seeing it again.

Somehow we survived. Now we need to get back our stuff and deal with Mr. Dory.

We need to get out of this disgusting hell hole.


Session 26 - 25/10/2020 - In which we meet an Emperor.

As we take stock after the fight in the sunken tower, several things are discussed:
Airell was visited by his god(dess) who said to get out of the city to be healed of the water sickness. She said he should ditch the rest of us, but he decided to come back to help. First he went to Mr. Dory’s and stole back his cloak of the manta ray.
MK made a pact with a demon and can now be possessed. Surprise! Can she control it? The answers were...vague. (Inspiration to MK!)
Kellan is unconscious. When she wakes up she tells us the Kraken was nice and she tried to control it. Both of which are further proof that Kellan is nuts.

Airell heals us all and we head back to Sgothgah’s lair. It’s dark in the tunnel and there are dead shapes floating about. They are shanked scum, killed violently it appears. We sneak up on the grotto and find Mr. Dory’s men there. We hide while they clean out all our and Sgothgah’s stuff. We will deal with them when we have rested up. The assassin (whom Airell points out to us) is also there. The assassin is gross like us.

Once they leave, Airell and Mornie scout above. More dead scum. When they come back Airell gives us a book he had found at Mr. Dory’s. It’s written in Abysal and Infernal. Kellan casts Comprehend Languages on Arienh so she can read it because Kellan trusts Arienh the most. Mornie blows up at Kellan and yells at her about trust. (Inspiration for Mornie!)

The book has an inscription to Mr. Dory who apparently wants to join a group who worships the Chained Oblivion. It says where to meet the members of the group in the temple where you currently are.

We realize we need to breathe air again. Progress! But we are still gooey. Fucking Styes.

Airell hears a sound above and Sliris’ men arrive. They make us all come with them to see Sliris. Mornie convinces them to let us get wet cloaks first. As we walk through the city, we are stopped by a weird guy who is tattered but with noble bearing. He calls us his retinue and says the guards must release us to him. They do. The weird guy bows to us and introduces himself as Emperor Mon.

He takes us to his abode and his manservant, Manfred, gives us food and drink. He is friends with Refrum and knows who we are. He leaves to greet his subjects in the city.

We discuss talking to Anders (most of the group says don’t, Arienh makes no promises), and why Mornie’s gun talks now. Kellan casts identify and finds out someone has put the spell Magic Mouth on it. When the gun makes a kill it yells “head shot!”. It cost someone 10 gp to put on the gun and it is a Wizard or Bard spell. That’s all we know.

We sleep. When we wake up we find that Nenredhe has tried to contact Mornie.


To do
Confirm that Skerrin is evil and kill him slowly
Find out about the artifacts
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Find the Kraken?
Find out who killed everyone at the Manor (Nenrethe thinks it was the same people who wanted to kill Jarme and Refrum)
Find out the following from Mr. Dory:
Why did he cover up the knifing?
Why did he question Jarme alone and allow no one else to see him?
Why is he gunning for Jarme and Refrum?
What are you trying to hide (Burr)?
Buy healing potions!!!

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Why can Kellan drink water again?
What does the aboleth want and is it being controlled by someone?
Why did Mornie’s gun shout “headshot”?
What happened to the real Drawmije?

Completed
Rescue Randall (or possibly kill him and the other pirates, TBD)
Do something about Yusgrolir’s impending attack
Get the Duke out of Saltmarsh. Dead or alive. Possibly ask to deal with the wife
Replace Kellan’s components - Done
Get Rat’s Tail - Done
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil - Done
Go to Abbey Isle - Done
Figure out what to do with the Falling Star - keep it
Find out who was in Airell’s house - Skerrin
Interrogate Abbey prisoners
Prepare for Yusgrolir’s attack
Take Sending Stones back from Gellan
Find a way to pay the FS crew long term
Find out if Eliander is really Eliander
Cure Airell before he dies of the Water Sickness

Answered(ish) Questions
Who is Mr Tobar and why did Skerrin give Airell a look?
Why is Anders so attached to Skerrin?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?
How do we deal with the Duke, Yusgrolir, Gellan, etc without having to spend the rest of the campaign being true pirates, running a smuggling ring or dukedom, or otherwise getting tangled up in politics? Which none of us are good at.
Session 27. Fireworks!

Waking up at Nathaniel Mon’s place. It’s chilly, but we are still mucusy and don’t feel it.
Nenredhe is seeking contact. Mornie tells her that Aboleth is dead, Jarme is dead. We are planning to kill Dory.
Nenredhe tells Mornie to remain in place and await instructions.
Manfred makes us tea, brings in the wine.
Plan: Airell to carry wild-shaped rat Arienh in a bucket of water to Dory’s place so she can scout.
Nenredhe shows up with Archmage Drawmij. Mornie tells them what happened.
Emperor wakes up, puzzled. Nenredhe is being a dick to him.
Drawmij is very polite with everyone and even tells Nenredhe to chill out.
Nenredhe: she’s not happy with Mornie violating the orders and “playing hero”.
Notredhead is being a bitch - says Mornie is a failure.
Mornie insists Dory is part of the mission. Nenredhe says she will come with her and they will finish the “failed experiment”, calls Mornie a “tool” a lot.
Drawmij: casts Identify on MK. Finds the rune. Dangerous to “awake the thing inside you”, will get dangerous in 6 months or so. He asks what MK remembers life before Saltmarsh?
Nenredhe suggests “clearing” Mornie and Eri and departing with them. Kellen and MK try talking her out of it. She gets really annoying. Kellen tries to Banish her and fails. Nenredhe keeps insulting everyone. Drawmij stops it. He seems nice.
Nenredhe casts spell on all of us and we see an icy plane with large metallic shapes that are worlds hanging above her. We see a castle of black ice. We see a woman standing before us that looks like a screaming skull. This is Wee Jas. It burns, and then we’re okay. More than okay, we get long rest from this.
Drawmij says they should review their location and pick a better place for the mansion. Also, experiment with Mornie is a failure.
Nenredhe tells Eri and Mornie to go with her. Mornie tries to object, but Nenredhe freezes her. Drawmij is being nice and reasonable, and Nenredhe listens to him. Mornie gives a mini speech and asks to continue with what she was doing. Drawmij: “We’re not in the business of fighting evil”. But he says she’s a “passable hero”. And that it’s a good idea to leave her here.
Emperor offers us tea and breakfast.He pulls awesome muffins from a bag. He says it was a gift.

Emperor says town is tense and there might be a war breaking out.
He tells us traditionally Mr. Dory goes around and asks people what he can do for them. It’s expected that people say “everything is awesome”. But this year he’s fortified himself in his ship, his hobgoblins are on the roof of the warehouse.
The Feast of Fools is tomorrow  at sundown and it might be ruined because of it. Temperance is the “funny” thing of this low quarter: no gambling, prostitution or alcohol.
Alchemist quarter: the food is rotting, alcohol is watered down, people are forced to eat until they can’t anymore and then eat more. Dory let this go for hours. At the end there are usually fireworks.

We are going to scout. MK and Kellen stay a bit behind. Some people wave at MK mistaking her for the guard.
Another Mummers dance! About a captain and a sorceress. Pirate is sparring with Mr. Dory and defeats him, he is then seduced by a woman that poisons him. Mornie is trying to hide her face at the place. Turns out Mornie killed that pirate and blamed it on Dory. No one should recognize her, she’s just a bit ashamed.

Dory’s ship is still hanging. On the crane there are 5-6 hobgoblins with muskets. On the roof of the warehouse there are 2 squadrons of hobgoblins. There are not a lot of people around and people are giving it a wide pass.
Maybe we should mess with the water station?

Mornie almost walks into hobgoblins.
Arienh turns into a spider to go into the warehouse. She gets in successfully. There are 12ish hobgoblins on the 1st floor on guard, 5-6 hobgoblins on the 3rd floor armored and have weapons, but are not on guard. They have our toys and are playing with them.
In the boat:  there’s a weird humanoid like creature there, Dory is in his office working. A lot of money! And everyone’s precious stuff.
Arienh comes out of wildshape and is being fired at. She runs away.

Plan: Wait for Mr. Dory to leave in the evening, pretend to be guards bringing in prisoners and get in. Kill everyone.
Only Mr. Dory doesn’t seem to go anywhere.
Arienh sneaks in first as a spider and hides.
Airell and MK go as guards and say they brought prisoners for Mr. Dory.
Arienh tripps manticores that notice her. She intimidates to blow things up, but is not very successful at that.
Hobgoblins say they are not interested, start closing the door. Kellen starts casting a spell.
Arienh throws the flame at a barrel. Crane blows up and the whole ship collapses down. I guess it was easy after all.

To do
Confirm that Skerrin is evil and kill him slowly
Find out about the artifacts
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Find the Kraken?
Find out who killed everyone at the Manor (Nenrethe thinks it was the same people who wanted to kill Jarme and Refrum)
Find out the following from Mr. Dory:
Why did he cover up the knifing?
Why did he question Jarme alone and allow no one else to see him?
Why is he gunning for Jarme and Refrum?
What are you trying to hide (Burr)?
Buy healing potions!!!

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Why can Kellan drink water again?
What does the aboleth want and is it being controlled by someone?
Why did Mornie’s gun shout “headshot”?
What happened to the real Drawmije?

Completed
Rescue Randall (or possibly kill him and the other pirates, TBD)
Do something about Yusgrolir’s impending attack
Get the Duke out of Saltmarsh. Dead or alive. Possibly ask to deal with the wife
Replace Kellan’s components - Done
Get Rat’s Tail - Done
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil - Done
Go to Abbey Isle - Done
Figure out what to do with the Falling Star - keep it
Find out who was in Airell’s house - Skerrin
Interrogate Abbey prisoners
Prepare for Yusgrolir’s attack
Take Sending Stones back from Gellan
Find a way to pay the FS crew long term
Find out if Eliander is really Eliander
Cure Airell before he dies of the Water Sickness

Answered(ish) Questions
Who is Mr Tobar and why did Skerrin give Airell a look?
Why is Anders so attached to Skerrin?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?
How do we deal with the Duke, Yusgrolir, Gellan, etc without having to spend the rest of the campaign being true pirates, running a smuggling ring or dukedom, or otherwise getting tangled up in politics? Which none of us are good at.
Session 28 - 11/15/2020

We open our eyes in the rubble of the warehouse deafened, but otherwise functional. We fight a bunch. Mornie’s gun keeps talking, Kellan’s Hadar spell kills some Manticores, Arienh puts out a bunch of fires. Mr. Dory’s assassin turns on him and shoots him. Mr. Dory vanishes again. The assassin (Harid) says he went to the ethereal plane. MK uses the oil of etherealness to follow and kill Mr. Dory.

We find a bunch of stuff in the rubble. Kellan talks to Harib who is Scarlet brotherhood, but not the crazy faction. He takes us back to his hiding place/home where he soaks in a bath because he’s gross like we were. He tells us about the crazy faction in the SB that first tried started their quest to wield the chained Oblivion 30 years ago (i.e. establishing a presence at Abbey Isle). Harid’s faction wants to restore the Celoise empire. Same goal, different methods. They can’t risk open war with the other faction. Harid’s mission was to convince Mr. Dory to take the FS.

Harid wants to know about us. He tells us the cultists will try again and the Kraken cannot be controlled. We should be afraid that Kellan thinks the Kraken is nice. Don’t worry, we are. He doesn’t know how to undo the Herald-ness. His superiors are at Port Toli (capital of the sea princes).

Skerrin had connections to Rashlin and is almost certainly a member of the other faction. Harid removed Skerrin’s connections in the Styes.

Mornie tells us the Kraken Terrasque from the old Celoise empire was called “the Ruin” (??) and her sword is called “The Memory of Ruin” and made from a piece of the femur so there is some connection there. The Terrasque and Kraken are titans, crafted as a weapon of war.

We rest, kellan sends a bad dream to Skerrin, Harid leaves and Airell follows. Harid is probably never coming back. We plan what to do until the FS comes back for us.

Session 29 - 12/5/2020 - Skerrin’s perfidy
After a long and perilous journey to the Styes, the IT crew finally returned to Saltmarsh. Still covered in dirt from their misadventures, some of the town council members approached them inquisitively.

“Hey, so what happened out there?” asked Gellan. “You guys look like you had a short rest.”
“Ah, you know how it goes. We got in to help, and help we did,” replied Arienh, avoiding eye contact.
“Ok, I guess you guys haven’t let us down before,” said Gellan scratching the back of his head.
“Do you want to stop playing games and tell me what actually happened,” interjected Eda. She’s always had a penchant for being direct.
“Fine,” replied Mornie, “We may have battled an ancient creature, killed a couple of local council members, turned into slime people, then back - the usual.”
“Oh…”
“Yeah…” Mornie glanced at the rest of the group.
“What I meant was, will any of this come back to us? To Saltmarsh?” said Eda. “Do we need to follow up?”
“Oh, no,” said Arienh, “I think we took care of all the loose ends.”
“All right, then,” said Eda, turning away, adding, “Don’t make me regret it,” as she walked away.

Concealed by a thick layer of mud, M’K’s hair showed resilience and perfection gifted only to the most prolific, natural blondes of the realm. Knowing that gave M’K confidence even when the rest of her looked like a half-baked, chocolate-frosted pickle cake, and the aftertaste of the Styes wasn’t far off. She was ready to get home, rest, and clean up.

Arienh made her way home to the secluded cabin on the far side of town, her feet dragging too lightly for anyone to notice. Peeling off her stinking clothes never felt better, and the fire from the logs made her feel cozy the way she would when she was a kid. A knock interrupted her reverie.

“Who is it?”
“It’s Anders,” a shuddering voice answered. “May I have a word, please! It’s urgent.”
Arienh opened the door.
“What is it?” she asked, thinking that he looked even worse than she felt.
“It’s Skerrin. He’s unwell, and you’re our best healer. I don’t know what’s wrong, but he has these symptoms,” Anders waved his hands next to his head as if fake-washing his hair, “and he hasn’t slept for days. I’ll pay, uh, will you please come with me now?”
“Put your money away, Anders,” Arienh waved him off. “Let me get dressed and get the crew.”

Arienh went to M’K first. Half-dressed, yet still somehow decent, M’K reluctantly opened the door. Even days of battle, Arienh thought, did not erase how stunning M’K looked in the candle light. Awkwardly averting her eyes, “I need your help to kill Skerrin,” she managed.

“All right,” M’K said cheerily, grabbing her armor on the way out the door. “I’ll be back later, Xandy!”

Given their history, Anders asked M’K to wait in the den. He didn’t trust her, and he especially didn’t trust her with Skerrin. Something soured their relationship, and he didn’t want to dwell on the blonde outsider.

Arienh and Anders entered Skerrin’s room. The faint light of the moon poked through the windows; scattered candles illuminated the spartan room with a warm glow. What remained of Skerrin was an aroma of restless sweat and a hastily folded letter left on the nightstand next to the unmade bed.

Anders looked puzzled.
“Where is he?” asked Arienh.
“I don’t… I don’t know,” Anders looked around the room. “Guards! Where is Skerrin?”
“He left not long ago with some others,” replied a disembodied voice. Anders barely acknowledged him.

He picked up the letter and opened it, hands shaking. The yellow parchment spewed lies with every page. Everything - all the deceptions and misdeeds, every act of heroism and kindness, each character flaw - implicated in a web Skerrin spun out of fact and fiction. Weaving real threads with those of slander, his filthy quilt covered everyone in the group. As Anders read the words, his eyes grew wider. He handed each page to Arienh, who, despite her growing anger, remained composed. Anders held on to the last page visibly distraught.

“Anders,” said Arienh.
“Anders…” she repeated herself.
“Anders!” he finally heard her and turned his head.
“Hmm?” he looked at her as she glared at his hand - the hand that clutched the last page so tight that his knuckles turned white. “Oh. I, uh, think I will hold on to this one…”
“Let me see what’s on there,” Arienh insisted.
“Is there a problem?” M’K chimed in. She realized Anders wasn’t himself anymore as this was the first time he noticed she was in the same room.

How did he even get here - wasn’t he just inside Skerrin’s chambers? And now he was in the den where he asked M’K to wait. M’K, whose stunning physique and fabulous hair concealed the training of a deadly assassin. She could snap his neck before the guards even drew their swords.

“M’K, I need to see what’s on the last page,” said Arienh.
“Sure thing, Ariel,” M’K misspoke again. Arienh was getting used to M’K mixing up names, but it didn’t make it less annoying in this particular instance.

Anders flinched, but that’s about all he could manage as M’K took the page and shoved him back like a leaf in the wind.

“I need to talk to…” Anders budged toward the door, realizing he didn’t make much progress. M’K’s grip was gentle, but firm.
“You’re not going anywhere, Anders. Not until Arienh says it’s ok,” M’K said as a matter of fact.
“Let go of my arm. Please. This document does not put you in the best light, and now you’re restraining me in my own home.”
“It’s fine, let him go M’K,” said Arienh, as M’K loosened her grip.

Skerrin left about five hours earlier with his partners from the brotherhood, as Arienh had discovered. She also noted that they took ponies, optimizing for difficult terrain over speed. Anders, still concerned for his “loyal servant,” decided to go after him. M’K and Arienh did not successfully plead with Anders to let them assist. In fact, he told them not to look for Skerrin - it would only complicate the matters.

M’K and Arienh met up with Mornie to discuss Skerrin’s letter. He couldn’t have known all of this without a spy or some sort of surveillance spell. Even though it didn’t make sense, they asked M’K to talk to Xandros to see if she’d been leaking information. With a heavy heart, but light protests, M’K reluctantly agreed.

“Xandy, you home?” M’K dropped her armor by the door as she walked into Xandros’ home. It was modest considering her line of work. Exotic trinkets adorned simple rustic shelves, and some could have been from realms M’K had never heard of, but nothing really stood out. The bed in the center of the room, however, received a special treatment - the finest silks from the lands of sultans. The pillow cases, the sheets, everything had a purple and black ornate design that reminded M’K of Kellen’s weird eye. Of course the most delightful eye candy was Xandros, quietly reading a book in bed, half covered.

“We need to talk,” M’K said. She sighed, “Look, there’s no easy way of saying this, so I just need to say it.”
Xandros lifted up her head and lay the book flat on her stomach.
“The crew was wondering, and I disagree with them, but I had to ask. Look, I mean…” M’K hesitated perhaps for the first time in her life, “My crew, we have experienced some strange adventures together, and someone had been spying on us this whole time, so I just need to ask - have you been discussing our jobs with anyone?”
Xandros didn’t move. In fact, she didn’t even blink.
“Because,” M’K continued, “someone has been spying on us, you see. And I told the crew it can’t be you - no way, right?”
“Of course I have,” said Xandros.
“What?” M’K was shocked, rolling too low on her perception to detect angry sarcasm.
“Oh, I’ve always been up to no good, can’t you tell?” Xandros said tapping one of her horns with her fingers.
“Don’t joke like that! This is serious.”
“I am serious.”
“Hey,” said M’K, realizing at last that she’d missed all the clues of an angry woman. It was her first time. “I just need to blah and that’s all.”
“I am blah,” replied Xandros.
“Listen blah blah, because blah is not a blah.”
“Oh blah? Your blah have been accusing me and the likes of me blah blah blah long time.”
“It’s blah like that, blah!”
“Blah blah blah? Blah! Blah out now.”
“Blah… blah blah blah? Blah blah blah blah.”
“Blah… blah…,” Xandros squeezed her fists.
“Blah. Blah blah blah blah blah,” M’K said moving toward the door.

She picked up her armor in one swift move indicating years of honing combat readiness. Yet this was one fight she was running from, defeated. She just needed to get to the door before breaking down. Just one more step. She hoped Xandros didn’t hear her weep outside: perhaps this would keep her safe from whatever comes next. M’K couldn’t think anymore. She needed a place to crash.

Skerrin saw Kellen in his dream - that’s how he was able to figure out that his affliction was artificial. The crew learned from Kellen that she had decided to secretly cast it on him to drive him mad, hoping Anders and others would finally disavow this treasonous weasel. Skerrin would no doubt try to prevent the spell by using Catnap or sleeping at odd hours. To get the exposition, Kellen cast “dream” spell on Arienh. Skerrin saw Arienh and told her that he would visit the same on Kellen’s family as he did on hers. Nobody is safe from his wrath.

Hastily, Kellen cast another “dream” on her father to warn him that someone is coming for him and the family. He was not surprised to see her: he dreamed of his children once in a while. Yet this was different somehow. Kellen told him that it was part of her magic; that she finally made it as a caster; that she found a crew; that she made it in an unforgiving world of Saltmarsh. Her father was very proud of her, and he couldn’t be happier that her dreams became a reality (although admitting it in a dream was strange). His little pork chop became a certified wizard in the good graces of Saltmarsh council.

Two roads led to Seaton, where Kellen’s family lives. One was the well-traveled Lakeside View Highway, and the other was the Hag’s Passage through the treacherous mountain pass of Ascon. Hag’s Passage was aptly named, as it led through dangerous territory with a hag who might help Skerrin. Perhaps Skerrin tried to divert attention away from her and send the crew to Seaton.

With beautiful blonde locks hanging just past her bosom, M’K shuffled her way to Arienh’s house. Everyone was at Arienh’s now. Her once-secluded residence now resembled an overbooked AirBnB. She didn’t mind company, but perhaps this was too much. It was just one night, right? What could go wrong…

The sound of the screams woke Airell (oh yeah, he’s also in this campaign). He could just make out the dark shapes of the attackers against the glow of the city. The still night began to stir with waves of enemies flooding the streets. There were two, no three groups now all going in different directions. Mornie shook M’K awake.

“What? Leave me alone,” M’K was grumpy.
“We have a fight on our hands. Get up!”
“Ugh, fine! I guess it does make me feel better,” M’K replied. Even though she was deep asleep, her makeup was perfect the moment she donned her armor.

The three groups of sahuagin split up - one heading toward the center of town, one for the pier, and one directly at Arienh’s house. “I am not losing my house today,” she muttered to herself. Nobody noticed, or at least nobody cared to respond. The air outside began to smell like the local fish market.

Mornie used her sword to warn the residents, “The sahuagin are attacking! Rise up, Saltmarsh! Tell your brother that he’s gotta rise up! Tell your sister that she’s gotta rise up!”

As soon as her words rang out, a cluster of sahuagin lit up as if by magic. It was magic - Arienh’s magic. Now that M’K could roughly see their formation and hear rustling near the house, she let everyone know not to stray too far from the house. “Do not get surrounded. This is our stronghold, and we will hold together!”

Not heeding her own words, M’K stepped out to bring the fight to them. With a swift strike to the mid-section, she split one sahuagin open, spewing the moist viscera on her shoes. “Gross!” she let out just before its eyes rolled back forever.

Another sahuagin slashed at her armor, scratched at her cape, dirtied her hair, but did not dampen her spirit: she was at an emotional low not experienced since high school when Tricia, well, she knows what she did. No time to dwell now: the captain is next.

With a terrifying roar, the house roof and walls exploded from within. A terrifying beast emerged, shaking planks and roof tiles off its head, an iron skillet caught hanging on its tail as it thrashed through the kitchen. “Here we go again,” thought M’K. The night was just getting started, and this isn’t the most terrifying thing they’ve seen in their travels. A big lizard? Bring it on!

For some reason, Kellen started to climb it. M’K wasn’t a stranger to Kellen’s antics. She had seen her snap a man’s spine in half and worse, so the beast was in for a beating for sure. Yet it looked even more surprising than that. Kellen sat on the lizard as if to ride it. “What is that, and do I really care as long as it’s on our side?” thought M’K. No, she did not care.

The beast opened its mouth, and the captain sahuagin disappeared in its jaws. The rest of the forces froze in fear, as they briefly glanced at each other with fish eyes. It was time to panic. As if to add injury to injury, the lizard flew up much to Kellen’s jubilation, and began feasting on the fleeing sahuagin. Chaos ensued.

As they flew over the town, the crew spotted commotion around Eda’s house. Eda, the one council member everyone had to respect if they didn’t fear her. Her old age prohibited anything but being candid, and that put most on their backfoot. Now she lay in her house with a gaping hole in her chest, lifeless. Kellen checked her pulse. Mornie checked her breathing. Airell checked her pockets.

“Move!” ordered Arienh. She pulled out some diamonds, rubbed them together while muttering incomprehensibly. A flash of light emanated from her hands onto Eda’s body. A gasp, a cough, an expletive - Eda came back to life with a sigh of relief.


Session 30 - 12/19/2020

Waking up in the freezing cold because there are no walls is pretty rough. Arienh’s house is an absolute wreck. Well, that’s what happens when you polymorph into a dinosaur while still within the confines of the house. We slowly picked ourselves up and removed as much of the grim we could from last night. Picking through the rubble, there were lots of sahuagin remains; the smell of rotting seafood filled the air.

We took stock of what we still had, which wasn’t much, and decided to go on a very quick shopping trip. Needed to make sure that we had everything to take out that bastard, Skerrin. We purchased arrows, ball & powder, winter clothing, and some other odds and ends. Before we took off, Mornie asked Eda to hold onto the other Sending Stone. Eda just smiled knowingly. That’s one tough old bitty. Glad she’s still around.

We settled into our routine of traveling - Arienh tracking, Mornie & Kellen navigating, and Airell & MK scouting. Turtleback Agatha’s hut was deep in the woods and we needed to find the village of Saltcrest. One problem with that - Saltcrest has been abandoned for a long time. The roads to it will be perilous and difficult. We can handle it.

Airell and MK notice that we are being followed - 3 humans who are armed. Knowing that we need to keep moving, we continue to navigate the swampy area. Clouds are starting to come in and look quite ominous. We happen upon the campsite where Skerrin and his crew spent the night. This must have been where Skerrin was when Kellen “dreamed.”

As we enter into the hills, it begins to rain lightly, but the clouds are threatening a heavier deluge soon. Kellen sends her owl back to check on the followers and reports that they are stopping. She doesn’t recognize their faces, but they do seem to be from Saltmarsh. The followers see her owl and try to take it out. Hah! They miss and Kellen sends her owl to send a stinky, gooey, moist present, that splats right on the face of the leader.  Kellen’s snorts tell us that she’s having fun messing with them.

The rain messes up Mornie’s navigation and she takes us on a longer route. It takes us by some ogre-like figures that turn out to be trolls. Being in troll country sucks sometimes. Arienh reminds us that she can summon owls and can fly us closer to our destination. Let’s see...fly and avoid a combat so that we can get closer to finding Skerrin? Duh. YES!

Mornie and Airell hope that the flight doesn’t trigger their vertigo...but they quickly join the others in the flight (even Kellen’s pony!). No issues! Also, missed the two trolls trying to flank the party...too bad.

After an hour of flying, we land and quickly locate evidence that we are where Skerrin and his crew were traveling. Airell spots two more humanoids starting to follow us as we travel along the treeline. It’s obvious that they do not know that we spotted them. Mornie and Airell circle back to see what the deal is and notice that it is an elf.

They are so good that the elf has no idea that he has been flanked. Mornie reveals herself and tells the elf that his companion should join them for a quick chat. After a quick discussion, the elves reveal that they are patrol scouts who are contracted to keep the forest area safe. Keyyarus and Inawyn tell them that they saw Skerrin’s party heading to Turtleback Agatha’s home, but never came out. Told them that Agatha has minions and that she needs to be given a gift (uglier the better) before entering into her home. Turns out some of the minions are actually souls of the villagers from Saltcrest...called “will-o-the-wisp.” Balls of lightning that fly and take lives. Delightful. Mornie and Airell thank the elves for the information and say good-bye.

Mornie and Airell join the party and tell them what they discovered. MK remembers that she has a tentacle from the Aboleth, but really doesn’t want to give up her trophy. Kellen mentioned her “eye” pearl, but that should only be a backup. MK gets grumpy, but agrees to offer up the tentacle. She stomps off for a moment before coming back and saying that she’s ready to move on. Drama much?

Agatha’s cottage is in the middle of a desolate village that has been burned down and abandoned. We can see will-o-the-wisps, frog creatures, red caps, and some ghostly shapes. The house gives off a green glow that’s probably enhanced by the cauldron in the front.

We walk up to the front door.

Agatha calls out, “You are here for Skerrin.” She moves into view and we are not surprised by her horrifying visage. Her crooked finger with a broken, dirty nail points straight at Arienh and she says, “You. You want him dead.” Slowly, she moves her finger to point at Kellen, “You tried. I approve of your methods. Slow death through dreams. Quite innovative. Appropriate for him.”

Arienh slowly offers her the tentacle of the Aboleth. Agatha snatches it up quickly and stuffs it in her dress. “You have manners. Ferrin taught you well. He is the one I disliked the least as he knew how to treat me.”

“Did you heal Skerrin?”

“You (Arienh) and you (Kellen) can come inside.”

Arienh and Kellen join her after noticing that there’s a delay spell across the courtyard that makes it hard to go anywhere. Agatha quickly brings them into her home.

Agatha finds Kellen a huge book and gifts it to her. Turns out it’s all the conversations in Saltmarsh from the year 574 (3 years ago.)

Agatha tells them that she gave Skerrin free passage through the Dreadwood to the coast. She wove him a spell to give him a night’s rest. Agatha made it clear how much he despises owing any mortal a favor, but mostly him.

Agatha wants to tell Arienh and Kellen where he went, but bargaining is in her nature. She tries to bargain with the following options: 1) Kellen’s service for a year; 2) Arienh’s house; 3) Kill Skerrin before he leaves on the ship or forfeit the Revivify spell forever.

Arienh chose option 3.

The Hag uses one of Arienh’s gold rings and wove a spell on it. 3 cloudy stones now replace the diamonds and Arienh feels the Revivify spell leave her mind.

Agatha explains that she disliked Ferrin the least and how she wants Skerrin dead.

Arienh and Kellen leave the house (they try to do it quickly, but that slow spell prevents that…). The party leaves the area without any incidents. The rain stops.

Time to find Skerrin.


Session 31 - 1/1/2021
After leaving Turtleback Agatha’s house, Arienh decides she is officially done with this “follow the leader” shit and after two hours aboard Conjure Animals Airlines you reach the Coast Road approaching Seaton.

You land in front of a family of Halfling travelling to Seaton.  The patriarch of the family, Dale Thatchknot (“With a K!” as his youngest son insists), ask for their help fixing his wagon.  You agree to accompany the family to scare off brigands, receiving some of the Thatchknots’ blackberry brandy as thanks.

Along the way they learn you are from Saltmarsh, and you find out that your story has spread.  Dale and the children ask if you know the Boarders Three, or if there really is a “Sorceress” in Saltmarsh that destroyed a pirate ship with lightning.  The teenage son, Allison, asks if it’s true that the captains of the Dockwatch really are a pair of married men.

Arriving outside Seaton you find the gates are closed for the night.  Rather than stay in Finder’s Town outside, you leave Kellen’s pony (Sparky) with the Halflings, and Arienh casts Water Walk to sneak into the closed city (see “done with this shit” above).

You head straight for Kellen’s family on Hurlem’s Isle, noting that the Gnomish community has weird “human sized” first stories to their homes and Gnome sized 2nd, 3rd, and 4th stories.  You reach Kellen’s family, who is shocked and happily surprised to see her.  Kellen’s mother has that mom’s relieved-but-furious response and Kellen hides behind MK, but not even a minotaur wrestling amazon can stop a pissed off mom.

Inside, the Stumbleduck family prepares a meal on the first floor (the upper floors are too small).  Eventually they realize who you are, and specifically that the Gnome mentioned in the song The Boarders Three is Kellen.  This is enough to convince them that Kellen’s warning about Skerrin is serious, but her father says they’re safer here with the Neighborhood Watch to look out for them.

Before going to sleep, you split up to see if you can find anything about Skerrin or how he plans to leave.  Arienh, Kellen, and MK head to the docks of Hurlem’s Haven.  They talk with sailors in taverns, asking about ships leaving soon or any unusual ships.

They find out that there is a ship in port from the distant Duxchan Isle, one of the islands that is part of the Lordship of the Isles.  The Lordship of the Isles is a kingdom across the Azure Sea and on the other side of the Tilvanot Peninsula.  It arrived before Needfest and was planning to sail home soon.

Meanwhile, Mornie & Airell manage to not only refrain from robbing a mansion or staging a coup.  Instead they talk to tavern-goers in the South Docks and learn that two of Skerrin’s men (Urdem Cannar and a man they’ve never seen) have been looking for passage on a ship across the Azure Sea.  When they learned of the Duxchani ship, they were very interested.

With that everyone returned to the Stumbleduck home and took a much deserved rest.  Mornie needs less sleep than them (and y’all still never got an exact reason how she can do that), and so she decides to check out the Duxchani ship in the South Docks.

At the docks she finds most of the docks are idle because a storm is rolling in.  All except for one ship, which is loading up their cargo like someone trying to get the hell out of town.

Mornie also recognizes the build of the Duxchani ship.  It has similar lines and draft as the Falling Star.  The Falling Star was constructed in that part of the world, and given to Arjan Mon.

Back at the Stumbleduck home, a group of the city guard arrives with a summons from Baron Eliander.  Airell decides to hide rather than go...because of course he does.  Because fuck it, let’s split the party three ways.  I’m sure the DM will never get tired of this shit and just decide to have the Kraken show up next time so Melissa can DM a campaign.

Kellen and the rest of her family lie, saying that Airell didn’t come with them and the (admittedly nondescript) man they were with was just a guide who they hired to get through the countryside.  The constable leaves two of his men at the Stumbleduck home, with instructions to bring Mornie when she returns.

MK, Kellen, and Arienh go to visit Eliander, because sure, let’s leave behind the person with Expertised Deception and the person with Expertised Persuasion.  Let’s have MK do the talking.  What could possibly go wrong?

On the way they get to see Seaton during the day.  Only Harlem’s Isle is full of the manic carefree energy of the Gnomes. The city (especially the marketplace) is more economically depressed than Saltmarsh, the effects of the former Duke’s taxes and Saltmarsh’s smuggling.

The three are brought before Eliander (who is residing in the Citadel while the King winters in Palace Isle).  Eliander is somewhat upset that they are in fact trying to kill Skerrin.  Eliander explains that Skerrin said as much when he met with Eliander the night before.

The meeting is saved from going sideways by Arienh telling Eliander that Skerrin admitted to killing Ferrin Kastilar, as part of a threat to kill Kellen’s family.  This changes Eliander’s tune.  He respected Ferrin and was shocked at his death.  Eliander gives you all the freedom to find Skerrin and bring him in, where he can be interrogated and tried.  Eliander promises to let MK swing the executioner’s sword herself.  With that, he lets them leave.

Meanwhile, at the Stumbleduck home, Airell invisibly sneaks out and spots Mornie.  Seriously, what is it about these two always ending up together?

Each of them individually spot two men watching the Stumbleduck home.  One is Liup, a man Arienh knows, and the other they have not seen.  Airell and Mornie plan to sneak up on them but overhear that the men notice they’re being watched by the Neighborhood Watch.

So instead the pair of them return to the South Docks to check in on the Duxchani ship.  There they spot Urdem and his companion, who are having a heated conversation with the ship’s captain about...something (it is pissing rain now, so it’s hard to tell from that distance).

Airell and Mornie follow Urdem and his companion as they return to the Naughty Mermaid inn.  Airell goes inside, talking with the bartender to find that all five rooms upstairs have already been rented (i.e. by Skerrin’s men).  He also figures out that three of the five are upstairs right now.

Mornie heads back to the Stumbleduck house while Airell stays and watches the inn.  The plan is for the rest of you to head to the docks first, in case Skerrin & co leave.  If Skerrin isn’t there, then you are to meet Airell at the Naughty Mermaid.

Seriously, you guys need to give Airell a Sending Stone…

Session 32 - 1/31/2021

Eliander sends ten guards to the Stumbleduck house. Everyone other than Airell heads for the docks. Arienh (of course) notices two of the guards following us. We fill Mornie in on our conversation with Eliander.

Airell is watching the tavern. The other two of Skerrin’s men return and Airell hears them saying, “What do you think he will do?” They seem agitated about something.

Twenty minutes later all five leave with Skerrin. Airell follows, attracts a ton of attention, and suddenly a second Airell (also in disguise) grins and ducks away. Two of Skerrin’s men follow him but the Airell double has vanished.

Skerrin and Co. book it down the street as fast as on-the-verge-of-collapse Skerrin can manage. When they arrive at the docks, Skerrin and the ship captain have a very animated conversation. Eventually the Captain seems to give in and shouts “make sail!” His incredulous crew stares at him and then start moving double time.

Airell dives into the harbor and swims unnoticed to the ship.

The rest of us arrive and approach. Arienh turns into a giant eagle to get closer. Mornie uses the shouting sword to tell the Captain and crew to keep the ship from leaving. Yeah, I think they know we are here.

Skerrin shouts to Liup “You know what to do” and Liup runs to the captain’s quarters and begins preparing a teleportation spell. Airell, who is currently trying to sneak into the ship, sees him through the window. Because naturally Airell chose the best place he possibly could have to board the ship. Liup doesn’t see Airell (of course) so Airell catapults a handful of ball bearings through the window at him. Naturally.

Meanwhile Mornie sprints to the dock and yells with her sword again, deafening four sailors. Don’t worry, they got off better than most of their crew mates. Nhemeir runs into the cabin and tries to cast hold person on Airell. He fails.

Arienh turns the deck of the ship into spiky plants to keep them from continuing to make sail. So Skerrin sends a guy toward Arienh. Kellan casts sickening radiance across the deck of the ship as well (“I have this cool new thing I want to try!!”). She does catch Skerrin, but also kills a bunch of sailors. Story of Kellan’s life.

Skerrin shoots Arienh who falls taking poison from the crossbow, the only damage from her plants (2 little HP), and a shit ton of damage from Kellan’s spell. No comment.

Arienh is now unconscious.

Blond guy fires at Mornie and misfires, then misses again.

Someone (I don’t remember who) shoots Arienh who is now one die roll away from perma-death. She succeeds on that roll (thank you new dice!!).

Airell kills the wizard and heals Arienh.

More fighting. Skerrin turns invisible and jumps off the ship. MK, who is just now in sight of the ship sees the splash and shouts that he’s in the water.

Someone shoots Airell with Magic Missile. Repeatedly.

MK, who’s slower pace has suddenly turned fortuitous, manages to grapple Skerrin when he gets out of the water, thanks in part to Kellan’s anti-invisible lamp. Skerrin, realizing he is done for, stabs himself.  Asshole.

Airell and Mornie mop up the last couple of Skerrin’s men and then loot the bodies. Mornie casts speak with the dead on Skerrin with the Captain as witness. Dead Skerrin lies and says MK killed him.

Thirty guards surround us and take us to St. Cuthbert’s prison. Airell, who never left the ship pretends to be a  shell shocked (sickening radiance shocked?) sailor and is taken to the prison as well but put somewhere different than the rest of us as no one figures out it’s Airell. Eliander comes for us in the morning. He asks Mornie privately if Airell is here and she says yes, but she doesn’t know where right now.

Eliander tells us all to “stay put at my house while I figure out how not to hang you all”.

Airell acts REALLY crazy and spends the next few days in jail. He overhears someone come into the ship captain’s cell next door, have a conversation, and then finds out in the morning the captain killed himself and no one knows how he got a knife.

The rest of us are called in to meet with Eliander and find the Saltmarsh contingency congenially congregated (foreshadowing?). Eda, her daughter, Gellan, Tom and Will Stoutly, Kester, Bait aka Kellan’s best friend all vouch for us. They say the Saugain attack was ordered by Skerrin/the brotherhood. Skerrin killed Ferrin (stop it with the rhyming names, seriously) because he was a threat to the Sahuigan mage guy as a favor for them attacking Saltmarsh. Eda was saved by Arienh and insisted they all come vouch for us. Even Gellan wanted to come “put his name on the paper”.

Apparently Skerrin sent Anders another letter and Anders published both letters (although how he got the first letter back from Arienh has yet to be explained. There may have conveniently been two copies). In the second letter Skerrin tells Anders he is glad he is alright after the attack, but there is no way Skerrin could have known about the attack at the time the letter was sent. So some people in Saltmarsh hate us, including Anders. But not most people.

Eliander might be convinced. Someone pops in and announces “The King!” Eliander is confused. Someone yells “He’s standing right here!” and in walks Emperor Mon. Eliander does not find this funny. Behind Emperor Mon is a bemused looking King Kimbertos. And behind him is Archmage Drawmidge (looking slightly different than the last one. Is he the original? Another double?).  Eliander’s endeavor at an entente has been effectively eclipsed.

Drawmidge: Mornie has been working for me, she found the plot in the Styes.
Emperor Mon: An abundance of alliteration in our approbation. I think.
Kimbertos: Why here? Oops, not my courtroom.
Drawmidge: Good place to hide, access to gunpowder, trade routes. Skerrin was definitely involved.
Kellan: We told you so.
Everyone else: Shut up Kellan.
Eliander: Too bad we can’t ask the ship captain.
Arienh: Why?
Eliander: He killed himself somehow. Big mystery.

It is decided that the “accidental” deaths of the sailors is attributed to Skerrin and the rest of us are free to go. The priests at St Cuthbert attempt to talk to both the dead captain and Skerrin, but the first they couldn’t get a hold of (his spirit was, like, so not picking up) and the second repeated his lies about us killing him.

Everyone leaves.

When Airell is at last released from prison he meets us at Kellan’s parents’ house.

Wrap up

Mornie

Drawmij takes Mornie to the top of the citadel to talk while the king entertains Emperor Mon. Drawmij has clearly been here before. He and Mornie have a conversation about Mornie working for him in a different roll than she was originally made for by Nenredhe. He tells her that she has someone else’s body and more people’s memories and skills (Dollhouse anyone?). She is a construct, the first of her kind. Nenredhe is a priestess of Weiss (?) and her job is to collect souls and use pieces of them. Mornie was meant to be able to also collect more souls into herself.

Drawmij is going to change Mornie. I got really distracted here, not sure what happened. Then Mornie died for a few days and then came back with an updated race/class so she can be badass.

Kellan

Kellan has a conversation with Gellan who tells her about Skerrin’s letters and Eda’s insistence that they all come here. He wants to meet Kellan’s parents to discuss a possible business arrangement. Kellan plants the idea that Anders’ business is now in trouble with Skerrin gone. Gellan seems intrigued.

Arienh

Eda also tells Arienh about Skerrin’s letters and his slip up in the timeline. It explains how the sauhigan always knew when Saltmarsh ships were coming.

Later, Eda’s daughter (Name??) talks to Arienh. Actually, she mostly word vomits which freaks Arienh right out, but in the end Arineh gets her house fixed and a place to stay in the meantime so she is awkwardly grateful.

On the way home Mornie gives Arienh a potion to help Eda recover from her recent bout with death.

MK

Tom Stoutly asks about Zendros, but not tactfully.
Will says he means he’s sorry and you can stay with us.

Beginning of downtime

Mornie sells stuff so we have money. The FS is paid for through the end of downtime.

Downtime - Mornie and Kellen 2/19/2021

Mornie and Kellen are off to get materials to make Mornie a pistol of warning and Kellen a magical item (that she wants to keep secret). This, of course, requires them to find a unicorn and get some blood. Simple.

Not so simple, it turns out.

Kellen had to talk to a being on another plane to get the answer on where to find a unicorn. We find out later that Mornie actually met a unicorn. More on that later. That being told Kellen where to find the unicorn, but it was going to be a very long trip.

Mornie and Kellen first contract a dwarven ship to take them to Safeton so that they can make it to the Welkwood - this is a 29 days trip. First stop - Gradsul. Kellen purchased 80 gp worth of diamonds there. Second stop Gryax. Turns out it is a dwarven city and is very, very organized. The dwarven ship avoided docking at Blue (the place where Mornie went to sell off the Cli Lyre) because it turns out there are long standing issues between the orcs and dwarves.

The next city was Scant, where there is the first lighthouse, and Mornie was able to purchase 60 gp of diamonds.

On the last leg to Safeton, a dinosaur attacked the ship and tried to eat a dwarf. That failed miserably for the dinosaur. Those dwarves have fabulous armor! Mornie and Kellen helped the crew fight off the dinosaur. When it was done, they were heartily thanked by the crew for their help.  Some of the veteran crew remarked that these creatures weren’t normally this far north.

When arriving at Safeton, it was obvious that there was a lot of work going on with the fortifications with the city. After asking some of the crew, Mornie and Kellen found out that Safeton had recently been taken over by Greyhawk and was receiving these fortifications as part of being newly absorbed into Greyhawk’s domain. Kellen purchased 20 gp more diamonds while in Safeton. Mornie and Kellen then purchased enough supplies to head into the Welkwood to find the unicorn.

Two days into their hike, they came upon a rare sighting - a pseudodragon. It was hiding in a tree watching the pair as they were traveling. Kellen used Awaken Mind on the creature to talk to it. Turns out the creature was quite curious about them. Kellen starts feeding it some food (note: do not use jerky when trying to coax a wild animal), and the squirrel meat was appealing to it (even though it wasn’t just killed.) While it is eating, Kellen casts the “find familiar” spell and the pseudo dragon bonds to her. Kellen has a dragon familiar!!!

Mornie and Kellen keep traveling and almost get caught in a Wolfmen ambush. They are able to beat them off and a Werebear came to assist them. Turns out it was Garik, the Werebear that Mornie and Airell met at Tanglebough’s funeral. Garik tells them that the unicorn we are looking for is in Enstad, the capital of Celene. He turns to Mornie and brings up that she had met this unicorn before - Kejal. Mornie looks dumbstruck and Kellen whips around surprised that she knew of a unicorn! Mornie met the unicorn at the funeral and even had been given a gift by that unicorn. Surprises abound! Turns out she was really hung over and didn’t remember that part.

Kejal is the Waywatcher and is currently helping the elves with an orc problem. He’s in the area around Enstad. Garik offers to help them find Kejal and makes the traveling easier since he knows the land very well. (Side note: turns out the pseudo dragon remembers Garik and has played with him in the past.)

At Enstad, Mornie and Kellen are taken to Riandon Celeadas, the captain of the guard. The captain attempts to trick Kellen into speaking Goblin (which she doesn’t know) because she could be impersonating one. Turns out the entire area is on high alert with all the crazy goings-on with Orcs and Goblins.

After spending a night in the elven tree city, they hop on an Elven ship to find Kejal. Garik “hears” Kejal in his mind calling for help. They quickly get to land and come across Orcs who have been gored by Kejal’s horn. They look at the ground and can tell that Kejal is being hunted. Mornie identifies the Orc force of being at least 2 dozen Orcs.

Mornie, Kellen, and Garik are able to catch up with Kejal and see that the Orc force is smaller than before, but has two Orogs as part of the retinue to a demonic Orc known as a Tannarukk. Through some great maneuvering (and awesome spell casting), the Orcs are killed off.

Kejal, as thanks, gives Mornie and Kellen 6 drops of blood. He tells us that the shin bone from the demon Orc can be used to create the mantle of spell resistance.

It takes Mornie and Kellen 32 days to get back to Saltmarsh. They are able to craft the wheellock pistol into a weapon of warning while they are on the ship.

They return in time for Richfest.


Downtime - Arienh and Mah’Kaylah

We set out towards Berl on our way to the little hills to seek out Reyna Yargrove, a druid Mornie and Airell had met when they were off adventuring. There are minor adventures (we kill four Gnolls), meet Kiera at Berl (“The trick is to turn the Brotherhood cells against each other”), and soon discover we are being followed by two humanoids. We wait for them to catch up and discover that they are Zendros and her coworker (bodyguard? Security guard?) Thokk. Relations between Zendros and MK are still strained, and Thok doesn’t talk to anyone despite Arienh’s efforts. Arienh practices her Ancient Celoise with MK and Zendros who both talk to her but never to each other. Thus the world’s most awkward hiking party travels together.

We hear rumbling. Arienh talks to a bird and finds out there are giants across the river. There is a big storm coming so we hike fast to the river. Everyone except Arienh gets a level of exhaustion. We water walk across the river, but Zendros falls. MK stops to help her and they make it out of the river bruised but otherwise fine. They have a conversation. They make up. They make out. Fade to black.

Meanwhile Arienh communes with nature to find us a safe place to shelter from the imminent storm and to see where the giants are (we need to head right for them).

The shelter is minimal but we do our best. The storm starts and two giants appear, running straight for us being chased by a bigger giant. They see us. Big battle, owls are summoned, big giant tries to eat everything including the other giants. A new creature flies in. It’s Wythaus, the dragon Mornie and Airell met! He helps us kill the giants, then tells us the druid Packylus is dead giants who have come really far south. They drank the weird water at the corrupted/ polluted lake and started going crazy. Wythaus used this to his advantage to get them to kill each other while he was killing them all. At least the ones who killed Packylus. Zendros and Arienh harvest giant parts.

We travel to the gross lake and clean it up. Wythaus comes with us to find Reyna, on through the little hills. We see ettins traveling in groups (super weird, they don’t do that). We find a dropped ship and later find the giant bird that dropped it. We scare it off. More travel, pass a village burnt with smashed bodies, no livestock. Probably not the hill giants.

We meet Reyna and the other guy (this is what is in the notes, I have no idea who it was). Reyna tells MK to “...enjoy Richfest.” and Zendros “You are welcome but your god is not. I will not let what happened to the old faith in the north happen here.”

Whithaus reports that the fire giant fortresses in the crystal meth mountains are gone. The queen of the fey contacted Reyna telling her of trouble in the Axewood forest. The Voice of Scorn (a green dragon) slumbered in the Axewood in feywild. The legend says if it wakes completely it will be the downfall of Keoland.We offer to help. Reyna gives us a sentence in Silvan to let the queen know that Reyna sent us and tells us where to go.

Nerul’s shadow - Arienh
Breath of Wonder - Whithaus

Reyna: 1100 years ago the dragon Whisper of Despair ruled. Some hero Oeridians slew him when they first migrated here. Dragons are avatars of creation itself. Despair’s death tore a hole between this world and the feywild. Later some dragon eggs hatched and Zaohriel (??) aka, the voice of Scorn was born. When Keoland expanded to the dim forest the keepers of the old faith worried about what would happen if another dragon was slain. So they trapped the dragon and put it to sleep. Now that it is waking up it needs to be put back to sleep. Don’t kill it!!

Reyna and Arienh have a conversation that I didn’t take notes on. Should I add stuff from the Arienh’s downtime doc?

We head to Niel Dra on our way to the Axewood. As we approach we see rangers coming to meet us. Withaus takes person shape. The rangers want to know who we are and where we came from. They aren’t taking more refugees, giants have been attacking everywhere. In the distance we see an eagle land and take person form. While in line to enter Niel Dra we meet Bay leaf who wants us to tell his superiors about what we saw in the little hills to help with their defense against the giants. Arienh also notices that Thok has a symbol of Iuz and covertly worships him.

We stay in Niel dra for a few days waiting for Bay Leaf then go to the palace to give our report. We meet the kings Herald. Again. He gives Bay Leaf a dressing down about who we are and then we are asked to stay and talk to the king.

While we wait Zendros helps us get 200gp more diamonds.

We talk to the king. Duke Feldron is an ass, the king is cool. Long rest, travel to the forest, Hear wings, find grove and lots of pixies and sprites. We meet Athenasia, the queen. She says the dragon is awake and trying to topple the elder oak. If she does, she can escape the feywild and come to Keoland. We should attack until she uses up her legendary actions and then the pixies will polymorph her.

We almost but not quite kill a dragon. It gets turned into a turtle.

Reyna shows up late and plane shifts us back. While we rest the pixies give inspiration to the rest of the party and Arienh gets to call pixies 3 times if she uses Athenasia’s name.

Reyna and Arienh have another convo: Someday, when Arienh is ready she will challenge one of the arch druids (preferably Anthala Quen of the Azure Sea who is a terrible person). It will probably be combat and he has a pet dragon turtle. Eventually she will challenge Reyna and become great druid of sheldomar valley. Arienh is Nehru’s shadow, new life, end of winter, will oversee a new spring for the old faith. Reyna knows more about Arienh’s past then she is letting on (at one point she calls her “The girl who swam for the surface”). Why has Arineh not met other druids? Ferrin said great evil is still searching for her and it’s better if no one knows she exists. Only Reyna and 2 of the arch druids knew she existed.

Reyna comes back to Niel Dra with us to talk to the king who is overjoyed to get the chance to speak with her. We stay in Niel Dra for Richfest then head home down the river in a ship.


Session 33 (& End of Downtime) - 3/20/2021
*****
At the 4th of Brewfest, Airell decides to fire his bow and he hears words in his head. He realizes that it’s speaking in Suloise, so he quickly asks MK to shoot the bow. MK hears: “Behold, the Warden of the Fore. Whisper thy quarry’s name beneath the darkness of Celene’s [name of one of the 2 moons] face. Their dying breath shall rouse me from my slumber.”
*****

Mornie and Kellen return from their quest and Kellen made Mornie a new gun!

Mk and Arienh return from their quest a week later.

We all (except for Airell) head off to Greyhawk for Arienh’s quest to make earrings for us. Zendros joins us on our trip. We sail on a ship from the Sea Princes. The trip is mostly benign, until we get attacked by swimming dinosaurs outside of Gryan. The crew (with our help) fight them off. We are later told that this is highly unusual.

Once we reach Blue, Zendros tells MK that it’s time to deal with her hand (AKA, the demon inside MK.)

Zendros takes MK up to the top of Blue to a beautiful villa. She cashes in a favor with one of her contacts to have full access to a remote villa for two days. Taking MK’s hand, she leads her into the villa and then performs a ritual to contain the demon. The emerald (that Mornie got her) is used to trap the demon. MK now has a year and a day before the demon can again threaten to destroy MK. They then spend two days “recovering.”

*****
At Greyhawk, we find a small population of Kenku. Arienh is able to get them to repeat back silly phrases that she will use in the spell for the earrings. We spend a week there while she does this.

*****
On the leg of the trip from Blue to Greyax, a turtle-like dragon dinosaur is seen dead. The stench is awful.

Kellen names her pseudo-dragon “Flicker.”

Mornie spends some time telling the crew about the new “her.” She explains that she is now fully a construct and that the spell that Nenredhe originally placed on her will no longer work. She has 100s of souls inside of her and she has the ability to remember things from those souls as well as take on those abilities. She’s still figuring out how to use her new ability.

Kellen tells us about the book of secrets. The book is the year the red pox came to Saltmarsh. Kellen discovered that only the four men who were with Skerrin knew he was from the Scarlet Brotherhood.

*******

After returning to Saltmarsh, Mornie got it in her head to “save” Sir Piersym after hearing about his dive into self-destruction with alcohol. MK went along with her on her doomed mission.

Sir Piersym wanted nothing to do with them and it became clear that he actually blamed the IT crew for his woes (which is odd considering they did not coerce him to make a fool of himself in front of the entire population of Saltmarsh, but whatever.)

MK and Mornie knocked him out, tied him up, and brought him over to Arienh’s house to get cleaned up. Arienh used Lesser Restoration on him to get rid of some of the filth and alcohol in his system

Some of the militia see what is going on and approach Mornie. She tells them to go and get Darvin, the de facto head of the militia since Sir Piersym is inept at his job. Darvin comes and attempts to “arrest” MK and Mornie. Eda then shows up, chews Darvin out, and sends everyone home.

Epic fail.

Eda then talks to Arienh and MK about Saltmarsh. There have been four hurricanes since the IT crew left. Additionally with the huge population increase, there has been an attempt to get a sanitization system and aqueduct system set up. That piece has been delayed due to the hurricanes.

Additionally, the Saugin are now where the lizardfolk used to be and it’s causing problems. The Council wants the IT Crew’s help. There will be a meeting on God’s Day after Brewfest.

Brewfest is quite a party! The IT Crew had a lot of fun celebrating with the Saltmarsh people. Kellen is invited to live in the new Gnome section called Kellenville.

Kellen pulls Arienh aside and mentions that she read in the book that Eda had a conversation with Ferrin that she knew who else was looking for Arienh. They both go to Eda to find out, and Eda is beyond reluctant to tell them. Kellen then decides to pull the information from Eda’s mind. Kellen hears that Graz’zt is looking for Arienh.

We find out that Graz’zt is a demon god who rules in the abyss.

Arienh and Kellen then go to Zendros to ask about Graz’zt. Zendros tells them that she is part of the Iouz worshipping ranks. Graz’zt is the father of Iouz. Both of them are dead. Graz’zt died several thousand years ago.

Arienh and Mornie are able to finish up two sets of earrings. One set goes to MK with the key phrase “No, you’re the prettiest,” and the second set goes to Airell with the phrase, “I didn’t do it.”

Kellen hands Arienh a brand new periapt of wound closure.

****

At the Council meeting, we see lots of people we recognize, including three lizardfolk (the Queen and two of her fighters.)

The Saugin fortress has been sunk two levels so that the first two levels are under water.  The area is patrolled by at least 3 giant sharks. No scouting parties have returned.

The Council asks us to:
Determine the size and strength of the force
Map the layout
Identify the defenses
Identify the leaders

To do:
Determine spells for the ring of spell storing that we got from Skerrin
Figure out how to help Kellen with swimming


Session 34 - 4/10/2021
We are getting ready to go “investigate” sahuagin fortress. Filling up Ring of Spell Storing: 1 Revivity, 2 Healing words lvl 1.
On the 13th Eda summons Kellen for a coffee chat. In that she says that she was planning to tell Arienh everything eventually, but didn’t want her running off carelessly. She also clarifies that the danger is coming from the Spawn of Graz’zt. At the end she threatens Kellen to make her disappear if she uses magic on her again.

There are thunderstorms so we only leave on the 17th. Out of two potential routes we decide to take a swim. Arienh is turning into the shark, Kellen rides her, and the rest swim by themselves.
Falling Start drops us off 12 miles away to not be  conspicuous.

While swimming we see some sahuagin herding sharks, and avoid the encounter with one of their patrolling Great Sharks. We also find a temple underwater that has symbols of Chained Oblivion and Kellen has a bad feeling about that place. She discovers that it can be used to sense the Kraken. And something else too. It’s far away over the land so she’s not sure what that is.

Continuing forward we get to the fortress. It looks like they moved the fortress in addition to sinking it. Lots of broken stuff around.

The first entrance we find is due South and looks to be barracks. In full darkness about 70 sahuagin are training battle maneuvers. 10 of them look experienced, rest are new and unscarred.

We find an above water entrance on the North side, but it doesn’t look accessible.

Below it is a hidden Third entrance and we decided to go in and explore. First we find a decaying giant eel trapped in a room. Then a room with 3 sahuagin torturing someone. Airell carefully opens the door and we make some sushi.

The prisoner, Borgas, says that they got him and the eel couple days ago and were keeping the there for the fighting pits.

The room has more cells, 3 of them empty, but the last one containing a person sitting on the floor and pushing all the water away. He stands up, summons a shadowy sickle into his hands and says he’s been waiting for us.

Note: We gave 2 giant hearts to Xendros before we left so they won’t go bad. Arienh still has the nails for the potions.



Session 35A (4/17/2021) and 35B - 4-25-2021
Emo elf has a sword with signature initials in elven (Airell sees this). Airell, Kellan, and Mornie talk to him. His name is Varsis (an older elven name), he is not controlling the magic to keep the room full of air, been here about a month, sent as a rescue party by Yusgrolir.

Airell: We work for Yusgrolir.
Varsis: Yeah, right.

He was sent to rescue a bronze dragon born named Shemash (Airell met him when we went to see Yusgrolir). The sahuagin have raided Port Torvin multiple times this year and took Shemash a while ago.

Arienh drops the shark form and re casts water breathing to include Varsis. Varsis says Shemash is on the top floor and if we help him get Shemash back he will tell us everything he knows about the sahuagin fortress.

Arienh talks to the fish guy who’s name is Borgas. He doesn’t like Varsis because Varsis tried to free him and his eel friend (whom we found dead), but then gave up. There were originally four in Borgas’ party. The other two were killed in the arena where the Sahuagin made them fight each other. Borgas joins the rest of the conversation reluctantly.

We ask Borgas if he knows who the Sahuagin leaders are. He says the “baron” and “baroness/high priestess” live on the middle level which is where the living quarters, spiritual stuff, and general better area is. The Baron has 4 arms.

In the arena they battle every week or so. 2 to 3 hundred sahuagin are their in the stands. It has been 6 sleeps since the last battle. Before each battle they sacrifice to the eye in the deep.

Varsis was expecting a group to rescue him because the Raven Queen said it would happen. He serves Yusgrolir only because the Raven Queen wants him to. Yusgrolir does not serve the Raven Queen.

Raven Queen - a shadowfell entity, insane demi-god(?). She creates artifacts. The most famous is a sentient sword named Blackrazor. Her Shadarkai are sent out from the Fortress of Memories to collect fragments of memories and dead gods.

Varsis thinks it’s absurd the idea that Yusgrolir would ever serve the RQ. Varsis doesn’t seem to have a high opinion of Yusgrolir.

Yusgrolir gave helmets to Varsis’ party that let them breathe and see under water.

Varsis didn’t finish rescuing Borgas because it wasn’t the RQ’s will.

MK gives Borgas 1 scimitar and 1 shortsword.

(Session 34B)

Airell: I hear something!

We form up around the door, but the sahuagin party of 8 pass us by. We start to explore and find a room with lockers and stairs. We explore the middle floor and find a ritual to the eye of the deep in progress. The eye sees each of us, mornie, kellan, and MK are frightened. We wait for the fear to pass then go in and attack and stop the ritual. Airell casts silence and Kellan casts hunger of hadar which means the ritual ends, the sahuagin lose control of the giant shark (it eats one of them), and they all take damage. Arienh’s octopi and MK keep the shark busy while Airell and Mornie deal with the remaining Sahuagin priests. We loot (stuff added to the BoH).

Airell gives Arienh 3 bundles of stoner seaweed that we should definitely get someone to eat sometime.

Side note - there are 3 types of humans - Flan, Celoise, and Oeridians (the language from which common is descended).

Airell sees ancient Oeridian on the stone on the alter. Kellan sees a crazy prayer (appropriated from the Oeridian) written all over the walls to the eye of the deep. A peaceful prayer to summon fish (aka a good harvest) becomes a crazy request for storms.

We continue to explore. Airell finds more stuff (see BoH). He also finds a room with an alter and kraken mosaics with the spiral. While he is there, 6 Sahuagin see the rest of us.

Next time- 5 min left on Octopi.


Session 36 - 5/8/2021
We are spotted! Fight fight fight and try to run. More forces keep coming. Kellen reaches out to get a spell slot back and gets connected to the Chained Oblivion directly. He offers to send a kraken her way and she accepts, because the situation seems dire.
More fighting, we finally find a way to the top floor and barely get there.

Session 37 - 5/15/2021
We just made it to the first floor and are being chased by the Sahaugin. Mornie freed the slaves and they are all following us as we are getting out of there as quickly as possible.

Airell is able to tell us where to go for a quick exit. Not questioning his expertise, we start running down the dark hallways.

The hallway leads us straight into a room with a bunch of Sahaugin who are playing a game and some of their priests are reading something. We rush through before they get a chance to even notice that we are there. Unfortunately all of the slaves, but one, get captured.

We hear the Sahaugin behind us.

A loud alarm sounds…..oh no! The entire lair knows something is up.

We do not stop. Even though we realize that the group of Sahaugin in the small room are holding the Dragonborn that Varsis needs to save. It’s too late to turn back.

We come upon a small party of Sahaugin who are obviously waiting for us. Arienh summons a pack of wolves to deal with the enemy behind us so that we can quickly dispatch the ones in front.

They die quickly.

We see the entrance.

It’s dark outside.

There’s movement in the water. Lots of movement.

Arienh summons the owls who pick us up as well as the lone orc slave who somehow escaped with us.

A Sahaugin tries to throw a spear at us. It misses.

We escape.

We fly towards the Falling Star, somehow finding it in the dark. Kellen decides to try and figure out where the Kraken is. She reaches out with her mind and it reacts to her presence with furious anger. It whips out a tentacle and destroys some rocks near it as it expels her from its mind. She holds her head in pain, but comes away with the thought that it isn’t coming.

Arienh has to summon the owls again. While waiting in the water for the summoning to finish, we have a sense that something is coming from under the water. The owls pick us up right in time as a giant shark leaps out of the water to try and bite us.

It’s fast. Very fast.

The owls are only a little bit faster.

Our hearts are beating like crazy. Will we make it in time for the Falling Star to sail?

We see the Falling Star.

The shark is still following us.

We are gaining distance on it. Enough, we think, that we will be able to get away.

It will be close.

We land on the Falling Star and tell them a shark is coming. “Shark! Double time!” The sails are prepped quickly and catch the wind to get us moving.

We see the shadow of the shark, but it isn’t going to get us.

Relief.

We turn to each other, exhausted, wet clothes, and breathe deeply.

Kellen says, “Good news. The Kraken is not coming.” She passes out amidst our confused faces. What just happened? What Kraken. None of us knew about what had happened in the dungeon. Oh no. What did she do?

We take a moment to introduce the Falling Star crew to Varsis and Borgas. Turning to the orc, we find out his name is Gedik and he was captured by a raising party at Port Torvin. The job of some of the slaves was to break down the walls in the room where we found them. The human slaves were tasked with carving specific words into the stone. The Dragonborn had the special task of translating some text into Sahaugin.

After getting some food, changing, we finally fall into our beds around 1 AM.

Groggily, at some point, we are awakened to the shout of “Kraken!”
**********************

Things we found out:
Memory of Ruin - when awakened, it can do more damage, can reflect spells, and has resistance to non-magical weapons.

Coral Smasher Sahaugin stats:
Str 16, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 9
Hit Points:  33
Proficient in perception
3 attacks - spear (+3, 1 d8+1 piercing); claw (+3, 1 d4 +1 piercing); bite (+3, 1 d4+1 piercing)

The Sahaugin coral smasher has:
Blood frenzy (which provides advantage on melee attacks against those who are wounded)
Can breathe air and water. Must submerge once every 4 hours or suffocate
Can control sharks with limited telepathy
Is a siege monster (double damage to structures and objects)
Speaks only Sahaugin
Dark vision
Passive perception of 15

Sahuagin Champions have 71 HP.  DM Note:  the three Sahuagin torturing Borgas in the prison were these type.

IMPORTANT: They will attack when the humans tell them the time is right.

To do
Find out about the artifacts
Find the Kraken?
Take shark skin to Kiorna (?)

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?

Completed
Rescue Randall (or possibly kill him and the other pirates, TBD)
Do something about Yusgrolir’s impending attack
Get the Duke out of Saltmarsh. Dead or alive. Possibly ask to deal with the wife
Replace Kellan’s components - Done
Get Rat’s Tail - Done
Go back to Saltmarsh and give the council the Oil - Done
Go to Abbey Isle - Done
Figure out what to do with the Falling Star - keep it
Find out who was in Airell’s house - Skerrin
Interrogate Abbey prisoners
Prepare for Yusgrolir’s attack
Take Sending Stones back from Gellan
Find a way to pay the FS crew long term
Find out if Eliander is really Eliander
Cure Airell before he dies of the Water Sickness
Destroy Mr. Dory. He is evil and gross.
Find out who killed everyone at the Manor (Nenrethe thinks it was the same people who wanted to kill Jarme and Refrum)
Find out the following from Mr. Dory:
Why did he cover up the knifing?
Why did he question Jarme alone and allow no one else to see him?
Why is he gunning for Jarme and Refrum?
What are you trying to hide (Burr)?



Answered(ish) Questions
Who is Mr Tobar and why did Skerrin give Airell a look?
Why is Anders so attached to Skerrin?
Why did the Duke send ships and come with them himself?
How do we deal with the Duke, Yusgrolir, Gellan, etc without having to spend the rest of the campaign being true pirates, running a smuggling ring or dukedom, or otherwise getting tangled up in politics? Which none of us are good at.
What does the aboleth want and is it being controlled by someone?
Why did Mornie’s gun shout “headshot”?
What happened to the real Drawmij?

Important (?) Stuff We Know
The eye of the deep has seen us all.
There is something else big out there
The Sahuagin have appropriated ancient Oeridian ritual (does it matter?)
There is a  Spawn of Graz’zt (a demon) looking for Arienh. Connected to Iuz.



Session 38 - 5/23/2021

Shortly after midnight Kellan has a nightmare about a kraken. She also sees the Chained Oblivion who says to call the kraken and bend it to your will. Kellan resists and angrily shoves it away. Her control slips and for a moment her mind fractures. She sees equations and hears a giggle.

The rest of us are awakened to the shout of “Kraken!” so we run to the deck. On her way out, Mornie sees Kellan’s dragon being crazy. On the starboard side there is a giant kraken making its way closer to the ship, tentacles reaching out, the wavering colors of an aurora borealis shimmering everywhere.

Kellan is on deck facing the kraken, unresponsive to Arienh’s attempts to wake her. Mornie and Varsis attempt to attack the kraken and are unsuccessful. MK picks up Kellan and squeezes her until she can’t breathe. The kraken fades away…

Kellan’s pseudo dragon attacks MK but instead hits Kellan in the face. Kellan goes invisible. The crew is very confused.

Capt. Sohral feels bad for Kellan and tells the crew to stand down. Mornie asks Kellan what happened and Kellan tells us her dream. Clearly we can’t let Kellan sleep anymore. Or I guess Arienh can cast greater restoration. That works, and the curse is lifted, at least for now.

Spell change: Lesser restoration lifts one level of exhaustion, Greater restoration removes all.

We put Kellan to bed and Mornie watches her. It’s not creepy. At least, no more creepy than Kellan herself. We discuss whether we can trust Kellan, but decide that for now we should just carry on as usual. We sleep. No one dreams of krakens.

Upon returning to Saltmarsh, we realize the atmosphere is a bit weird. It’s like they are prepping for a storm, even though the weather is nice. Waiting for us on the shore is Darvin Windhill, some of the town guard, Wil Stoutly, and Tiel Diquise deSomething (I don't see this name on the npc list, did I write the wrong one?). They tell us the council would like to meet us, would this afternoon work? And the three we picked up must be taken into custody. Mornie puts up a fuss, but eventually gives in.

We go to Arienh’s house to clean up and for Kellan to commune with her god-like thing.

Who is the human giving the sign? Stretch Roughsitride (this strethes us out)
Where is he? Port Toli (Torvin? No, Toli. Too many T’s.)
What is the trigger? The Sending spell (Should have phrased this question better.)
When? 4 to 6 weeks.
What was the other presence Kellan felt? The Fist of the Furnace (I’m sorry, his name is what now??)
Arienh scrys on Streth who is in a small room on a ship docked in a port. When she describes it to Kellan it is confirmed that it is probably indeed Port Toli. Streth was one of the men with Skerrin who got tossed off the ship.

We go to the council meeting where Eda is chewing out the group for letting slip our super secret trip to the sahuagin lair.

Capt. Sorrel reports, then Mornie. Summary:
The Sahuigan are worshiping the Eye in the Deep which is unusual because they usually worship Sekolah, a shark god (can’t read my own handwriting).
They usually prefer the deep ocean so it’s also odd that they have a fortress so near to land.
They have started avoiding Saltmarsh and raiding Port Torvin.
There is a planned sacrifice of lots and lots of ‘air breathers’.
Of their slaves, the strongest are in gladiator-like contests with a religious element which is watched by the Baron and priestess. The loser's body is cut up in a ritual to the Eye in the Deep.
The council is less than encouraged by these developments. When we mention Streth we see Eda, Anders, and Gellan freak out. Apparently he is supposed to be dead and Anders is mad at us for disrespecting the dead and making things up. What else is new?

We all discuss options and agree to think on it and come back later. Mornie tries to get Varsis and Co. released. Nope.

Mornie and Airell go to talk to Varsis about the Raven Queen. He has no idea if she will help, but he will try to ask. In the meantime, Varsis is happy to keep helping us. (Although at any minute he could “see a sign” from the Raven Queen and ditch us, so maybe let’s not put him in charge of anything vital, yes?)

Arienh sells the shredded shark skin.

MK and Kellan go to Xendros who is frantically packing to leave. She will go to Gradsul, Greyhawk, then Dorakaa(?). She has to go home, can’t say why. It will be a long time before she can come back. She gives MK a platinum thing and tells her to go to Blue to see about the demon if she isn’t back in time. She also gives us:
5 potions of regular healing
4 greater healing
3 superior
1 supreme

Kellan asks more questions of the god like thing:
How do we stop this invasion? Stop them first.
Who will they send the message to? The high priestess.
Is the Fist of the Furnace (*snort*) also planning to attack us? Not us, but the fools who are against it are outmatched.
Where is the Spawn of Gratz? Iuz. At least, most of him.
Why is he interested in Arienh? Because of her ancestors.

Kellan and Arienh go swimming with sharks. Darvin comes to Arienh’s house and finds Mornie. He talks about using a distraction, seems like he has an idea festering, says we will all meet to discuss a plan in a few days.

We meet, same group plus Kester. Darvin says the Sahuagin are not like us. When we attacked they left the lair. They pursue when provoked. If we can draw them out into an ambush that might work. Lead them to a cove. We make a plan. Gellan gives us each 250 gp.

3 weeks down time until we spring the trap.

Arienh and Mornie work on earrings. We finish Mornie’s and Arienh’s.
MK styles her hair and mopes about Zendros leaving.
Kellan makes rainbow sharks everywhere and practices not being crazy.
Airell has an adventure (see his notes).

To do
Find out about the artifacts
Find the Kraken?
Get more diamonds

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Who are Arienh’s ancestors?

Important (?) Stuff We Know
The eye of the deep has seen us all.
There is something else big out there
The Sahuagin have appropriated ancient Oeridian ritual (does it matter?)
There is a Spawn of Graz’zt (a demon) looking for Arienh. Connected to Iuz.
Xendros and Thokk (who is a worshiper of Iuz) are going back to Iuz.


Airell has an adventure…

Airell was sleeping peacefully one night, not long after his return from infiltrating the Sahuagan lair. He was resting, secure in the knowledge that, even if the rest of his compatriots died, he would have gotten out just fine. Suddenly, he is awakened by the disquieting sight of Skerrin Wavechaser sitting at the foot of his bed. “Well, bother,” he thinks. “I thought we handled this already.”

Instinctually, Airell invokes duplicity and bounds out of bed. Skerrin throws a dagger, but is momentarily confused by the second image of Airell and aims for the wrong one. Airell charges forward and stabs Skerrin right through the heart. The pleasure in Airell’s eyes quickly turns to surprise as Skerrin laughs in a voice very familiar to Airell. “Olidamara!” he gasps in surprise, then quickly recovers his composure. “I was wondering when I’d see you again.”

One short conversation later, Airell is aware that after he tried to read Anders’ mind Anders had him followed. Also, Olidimara wants Airell to start thinking beyond petty cons and small towns. It’s time to start playing a much bigger game.

“I’m glad you went to Greyhawk,” Olidimara tells him. “It was a good start. Perhaps you should return. The Castle Greyhawk should prove… interesting. And now you should… WAKE UP!”

At that moment, Airell jolts into true wakefulness and finds two assassins in his room, preparing to dispatch him. After a rapid, but fierce battle, Airell kills one in his room and chases the other out into the town. Only moments later, the second assassin has failed his final job.

Realizing that two dead bodies will cause a stir come morning, Airell stages them to appear as though they killed each other on a small side street. In the process, he loots the bodies, finding a rough map. Hoping his deception will prevail (but really, when has it not?), he takes a moment to consider the events of the night thus far.

“They weren’t actually trying to kill me,” he realizes. “They wanted me alive for some reason.” As he studies the very inexpertly drawn map, he sees the X drawn near the dwarven mine and makes his decision. He disguises himself as the assassin named ?? and starts off to the mine. As he makes his way out of town he sees in the distance the skeletal remains of the burnt out mansion standing at the location of the X on the map. This must be the meeting place.

Silent as a whisper, Airell circles the mansion until he sees threemen, their stances tense, and anticipatory. Two are veteran sailors who work for Anders Solmar. The other is Orkun Duskbreeze, former captain of one of Anders’ ships, who has taken over Skerrin’s position as Anders’ right hand man.

Airell whispers under his breath, “It wasn’t me,” and activates his earring. He sends a message asking what he wants to Orkun who is understandably startled. They have a conversation of alternating whispers and shouts as Airell uses his earring and Orkun yells back at the shadows surrounding him.

Streth is apparently a simple man who could not have planned a scheme so intricate involving the Sahuagin. Orkun and Anders knew that Streth survived, but Airell does not find out how.

When the conversation is over and the men return to Saltmarsh Airell follows them and sends his spider familiar to climb onto Orkum in the hopes of listening in on their conversation with
Anders.

(This is where his notes end)

Airell returns home, checks the locks and settles in to sleep for an hour or so before he is due to join the other members of Invicem Tolerandum at the meeting with the city council. He drifts off, content in the knowledge that he has, once again, come out on top.

Session 39 - 6/6/2021
Town is getting ready to the totally secret mission. Borgas is confirmed and released from jail. Locathah that comes for him gives us Potion of Greater healing and Potion of poison resistance as a thank you.
Orc really wants to be out, but doesn’t look super trustworthy. So finally he’s released to the Sea Grove where he’s helping Ma Garret make meat pies. Not dangerous at all.
Varsis just sits in his cell quiet and creepy as usual.
Double murder happened on the Salterdock neighborhood. Airell was totally not involved in any way.
The IT crew gets called for an emergency meeting. There are guards posted at the doors that is quite unusual. Also a Gnome priest is present. Turns out Airell was actually involved in those murders (mild shock).
Eda “politely asks” him to explain. He says they came to his house and tried to kill him. He wanted to do his own investigation before alerting everyone. His investigation so far didn’t reveal much.
Priest says that he found out from one of the corpses that they were hired by Orkun Duskbreeze, Anders’ man.
All eyes on Anders. He tries to say something in his defence, but is not convincing enough. Eda smacks him with her cane and tells the guards to escort him to jail and go search his house. A mysterious “he” is mentioned who is apparently alive.
Eda sends Gellan to figure out if Anders is dumb or malicious.
Next she turns to Airell and the actual interrogation begins. Nothing too gruesome, just zone of truth.
Airell says that he didn’t come to Eda or the council with the information because they weren’t helpful before. He’s also forced to admit that he used a different persona to approach Anders at some point to rob him. Eda seems to be satisfied with this, and just warns him to not rob anyone else.
She then tells everyone to get back to work and walks away. Her hip seems to be hurting. MK offers to beat up whomever is needed next time. Airell casts Healing word to win some graces.
Word gets out about Anders. His reputation is ruined. Airells is wondering how to buy his house.

Final meeting is on Freeday. While we strategize, Sir Piercen staggers in. He seems somewhat less drunk than usual. He demands to be part of the mission. After some squabbling we have to agree to take him on the Fallen Star to keep an eye on him.

Next day, Starday the 8th ships set sail. Spend all day at sea. Some pranks are played on Sir Piercen, he’s not amused.

Ships get to the cove and everything is prepped. Arienh casts terrain to hide ships until it’s time. They position the guns to fire low. Darwin takes one of the Sending stones so we can coordinate.
Next day at dawn the IT crew flies to the sahuagin fortress. We land by the door and knock. So polite. As soon as a tiny window opens and a pair of eyes peeks through Kellen and Varsis shoot it with some eldritch blasts. We bust in and proceed to go into the fortress to raise an alarm.
Through his creepy magic Varsis learns that not all sahuagin are there, some went to the air breather’s city. That is concerning, but not much we can do right now. There’s bunch of them in the water, but some seem to be illusions. We decide to proceed with the plan and lead them to the cove.
Mornie uses sending stone to tell Darwin both that we’re coming and that sahuagin went to a human city, but we don’t know which one.
Closer to the cove we land onto a boat and Arienh casts Scry on Saltmarsh. And we know where the sahuagin went. There are fires and destruction. Ships are tilted and sinking. Eda’s house is on fire. Kellenville is mostly gone. Bodies everywhere. And on the top of the hill there’s a man in blue robes who looks like Liup Wain, the sorcerer that Airell killed a while ago.


Session 40 - 6/17/2021
Arienh scryed Saltmarsh and saw that the sahaugin are there and sacking the place. She is able to tell that Liup Wain had been at Siren’s point for a while. Her house is untouched at the moment, but she does notice that the leader of the sahaugin is there - the Baronness.

She decides not to tell Darven about the sack of Saltmarsh so that they could take care of the incoming sahaugin forces.

The sahaugin do exactly as they planned - coming straight into the cove. The signal is given and the Saltmarsh forces attack.

Sir Piersym runs out with a few loyal forces to attack.

The canons unload on the sahaugin and everyone nearby is taken aback by the cacophony. Sir Piersym and his soldiers were out there when the canons shot, but we do not know if he was hurt as the battle ensues.

We discover that many of the sahaugin are illusions. The sahaugin priestess banished Mornie into another realm. MK starts taking out anything in front of her. She’s a slashing machine!!

Arienh realizes she can use her wand of magic missiles and kills off the priestess. The illusions disappear. This causes confusion on the other flanks who did not know about the illusions.

Mornie returns and kills a sahaugin with the Memory of Ruin. It fractures the sahaugin with necrotic energy. Beams of light like the sun fire off from the fractured sahaugin and then fill Mornie with more energy.

We never saw that happen before.

The remaining priestess tries to run away. Arienh shoots her bow and hits her. MK then draws back her bow, and with her deadly aim, pierces the priestess through the neck. She grasps at the arrow, gurgles, and then flops face down in the water dead. MK flips her hair so that the sun reflected off her glistening locks. Her smile of triumph fills her face with glee. “I did it!.”

Ariel is close to the priestess and grabs a tiara with a green gem and quickly hides it in his cloak.

The rest of the battle wraps up very quickly after that. No sahaugin survive.

As we start cleaning up from the battle and tallying our dead, Sir Piersym is found lying face down. He is pierced from the cannon volleys and from the sahaugin weapons. A noble death for someone who used to be worthy.

Arienh moves over quickly and tells Darven that Saltmarsh has been attacked and that our battle was a diversion. He gets everyone moving. Time is of the essence. It’s decided that Airell, Mornie, and Arienh will go to Saltmarsh in advance to warn the two areas of defense of the fleet returning. Arienh tells everyone that Saltmarsh had very heavy casualties as well as a wizard helping the sahaugin forces. The aquatic peoples agree to help with the retaking of Saltmarsh.

Kellan hands the balloon pack to Airell. “I think you are going to find a use for this when you get to Saltmarsh ahead of us.” Arienh hands Mornie her balloon pack. Arienh turned into an octopus and carried Mornie through the water to Saltmarsh. Airell swam the whole way.

MK and Kellan see that the new cook on the Falling Star is overwhelmed and they pitch in to help her feed everyone. This helps get everyone ready for the coming battle.

Darven and Sohral are in the captain’s quarters and they summon MK and Kellan. Darven hands MK a scroll. It turns out that Ma Garrett is requesting urgent help. The message only confirms what Arienh already told everyone.

Mornie, Airell, and Arienh reach Saltmarsh. They use the balloon packs to float up the cliffs. The dwarves don’t recognize them at first and hit them with crossbow bolts.

Airell announces their presence and the dwarves realize who they are. They are quickly taken to a conference with Ministred and Anders. Eda and Gellan are also alive. They are told that the sahaugin are inside the entire port. It was obvious that the sahaugin knew about the plot to draw them out.

We are shown Liup, Streth, and the protector of Liup. Liup and his protector were supposed to be dead! We are also shown the Baron and Baronness.

This is not going to be an easy fight.

Session 41 - 7/4/2021

Stuff we know before the battle:
Arienh, Airell, and Mornie arrived around 1 pm, it’s now 2 pm, ships and storm arriving around 3 pm.
Sahuagin attacks started around midnight and centered on Salterdocks and Bridgers. People in Bridgers and Kellanville fled to Upcliff where Manistred and Kraddick have made a base of the dwarven mining headquarters. People in Salterdocks went to Hool Hill where Ma Garret is leading the group of survivors and used magic of Elhonna to protect them.
The Sahuagin spent the night roaming and killing those they found, but not searching or looting. Likely many people are hiding and waiting it out. Over half the town is currently unaccounted for (dead or hiding).
The population of Downcliff (slums) are trapped there by the Sahuagin. The priests of St. Cuthbert tried a rescue but that brought swift retaliation from the Sahuagin. Otherwise the Downcliff people have been trapped, but left alone. (Perhaps to be the sacrifice for some ritual?) This follows the Sahuagin pattern of viscous counter attacks. They over react to provocation.
Targeted burning of Gellan and Eda’s houses, Council hall, blacksmith, and fishmonger’s plant by Liup (intentional and vindictive). Most of the buildings near the docks destroyed. Kellanville blown up by the gnomes as they left.
Uphill and Hool hill communicate by runners going through the marsh. Ma Garret sent a note to Seaton and to the Saltmarsh fleet about the situation which arrived just after they had set sail.
Liup has been at the standing stones casting since 2 or 3 am. Doesn’t seem like he is reading off the stones so he either has it memorized or just needs the location, not the words on the stones themselves.
We don’t know how the Sahuagin are getting up the cliffs to Kellanville, but there is traffic up and down. The Sahuagin come and go, especially the 4 armed ones. The smaller a lot, the bigger less often.
Liups protectors, Streth and Nhemir stay with him. Nhemir is a big dude, reach weapon, had the wand of missiles previously, Skerrin’s lieutenant, went on the dangerous missions, a smart guy, liked to read, prefers dragon chess (he and Keledeck had a friendly chess rivalry). He has some magic and is a skilled warrior. Liup tended to go on long trips for Skerrin, is a wizard, smart and studious, lots of languages.Very unfriendly and got along with no one. Hard core racist, part of the brotherhood. Really hated Krag the half orc. Not physically strong, can possibly cast 5th level spells (at least a 9th level character).
(side note - Keledeck left for Ket during early downtime, took Abby Isle tomes, will return at unknown time in the future.)
The ship Bastion is sunk in the harbor, harbor is full of Sahuagin and two giant sharks.
With Arienh, Airell, and Mornie at Upcliff are Manistred, Nolan, Kraddick, Anders, a few king’s outriders, and a few dwarven guards.
Arienh talks to Anders. He is an emotional wreck who is trying to be useful but keeps getting distracted by wondering if Skerrin ever really cared about him and whether his whole life was a lie.

Airell, Mornie, and Arienh go to spy out the far side of Kellanville to see how the Sahuagin are getting up and down. We try to chain the earrings, but it’s too far and we lose contact. Meanwhile Manistred is preparing an attack on Kellanville to be a distraction when the ships appear.

Airell and Mornie end up on the island along with Liup, Streth, Nhemir, and a few dozen Sahuagin. Airell finds the rope ladders the gnomes had used have been reattached. He goes invisible and sneaks up. He tries to send his owl familiar to Mornie but it is seen and shot by Streth which alerts the Sahuagin. Liup pauses and then continues the ritual, telling us it is not a continuous ritual. Mornie can’t contact either Airell or Arienh so she heads up to the top too. Arienh can’t get any closer or she will be seen so she heads back up the cliff on the mainland.

The ships arrive and Arienh joins Manistred, Kraddick, and some soldiers and commoners in fighting off the sahuagin coming their way. Fighting starts across the harbor at Salterdocks as well. Arienh conjures Stench Kows and panthers. Not quite all the commoners die. The rest make it back to safety.

Meanwhile, Airell sees Mornie and tries to get her attention while still invisible. She almost takes his hand off.

Kellen, MK, and Varsis are still on the Falling Star talking to Sorrell about the big sharks. However, once Saltmarsh is in view, the three of them decide to head over to help out on land. MK gets to fly (invisibly) and effortlessly carries Kellen and Varsis across the ocean into the storm. Meanwhile Kellen reaches out to the Chained Oblivion, makes the save. Not sure what will come of that.

As they fly, Varsis sees an emaciated raven flying impossibly against the storm towards the Salterdocks. He does not mention this.

When they are close enough, Kellen casts sickening radiance on the group at the standing stones. Mornie spends most of the fight paralized and furious. She finally gets to take it out on Streth who is now deceased and headless, and later kills Nhemir. Airell takes a lot of damage and a couple of heads (including Liup’s).

Varsis ditches the group and flies off after the raven that no one else saw. Unbeknownst to the rest of us, he lands, kills a Sahuagin who is trying to kill Eda, then slices Eda’s head off. The sword vanishes in a cloud of smoke, taking Eda’s secrets to the Raven Queen. The people attack Varsis who does not resist and just lets them knock him out.


Over the next hour the Sahuagin are defeated by the Saltmarsh and aquatic forces. One giant shark is killed, the other flees, 60 to 70 of the Sahuagin and a dozenish smaller sharks are driven off as well. The aquatic peoples lose about ½ their numbers.

Loot the bodies! Magic items - Bracers of defense (+2 AC, +2 initiative if not deaf or incapacitated), sentinel shield (also has ancient celoise spell for banishment written on the inside).

Several hours after sunset we are all gathered at the Dwarven Mining Headquarters. Eda’s remains are here, wrapped in a sheet. Eda’s daughter is there as well. When we hear about Varsis’ involvement several of us have sinking realizations of why he did it and IT says we will have a private conversation later. Kellen tries to see if the Kraken is coming. Not yet.

Sorrel comes in and gives her report on the ships’ status: Sack of Monmerg is down 178 Hp of 300 HP. Falling Star is down 97 HP of 300 HP. The Bastion is sunk but salvageable.

IT crew goes to a private room to talk. Arienh explains about Eda and the Swawn of Gratz and tells them that Eda was killed for her secrets which the Raven Queen now has. We all see what we can remember and collectively we know:
Gratz was the father of Iuz
The spawn of gratz is “mostly” in Iuz now
Xendros and Thokk worship Iuz and are in Iuz now (or headed that way)
The Raven Queen knows any secret Eda knew
We come up with some questions and Kellen talks to her special friend. Twice. Turns out Airell knows who Kellen’s friend is and the friend tells her to ask Airell about him.
How soon is this coming? Days.
What type of entity is the Spawn of Gratz? Demi-god.
Who told Ferrin about S of G? Arn Grandpeak “old Arn” (Ferrin’s druid mentor, long dead).
Who or what will initiate? Skerrin (fuck!!).
Do you have any advice? “You have the tools within your reach to win.”
What is your name? Airell knows me.
Who told Eda about S of G? Her grandfather.
When is the S of G going to be a problem? We’re dealing with his machinations now, it’s all been him.
When is the Kraken coming to Saltmarsh? If Kellen does nothing, then after a pit stop at a place of sorrow, 10 days.
If we want to intercept Skerrin, where can we do that? Jeklea Bay.
What is the name of the Spawn of Gratz? Iuz.
When Kellen tells us about the place she sees Airell, who has lots of Greyhawk knowledge, puts together that she must be talking to Zagyg. More stuff we now know:
The realm Kellen sees is the city called Sigle (?) in the outlands, the center of the great wheel, overlaps the prime material plane. It’s the true neutral realm, gateway between all the worlds.
There are two gods who live in the outlands, Bachab, and Zagyg.
Zagyg was the mad archmage who built castle Greyhawk. He ruled Greyhawk hundreds of years ago, it was attacked a few times by Iuz. Last time Iuz attacked, Greyhawk was destroyed, the army attacked the castle, neither Iuz nor Zagyg were ever seen again. More info on the website.

To do
Find out about the artifacts
Find the Kraken?
Get more diamonds
Figure out Mornie’s weapon unlocking
Fix the ships
Interrogate Varsis
Ask Eda’s daughter about her great grandfather

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
Who are Arienh’s ancestors?
What is a ‘place of sorrow’ the Kraken might stop at?
What was the effect of Liup’s spell or was it interrupted before it was finished?

Important (?) Stuff We Know
The eye of the deep has seen us all.
There is something else big out there
The Sahuagin have appropriated ancient Oeridian ritual (does it matter?)
There is a Spawn of Graz’zt (a demon) looking for Arienh. Connected to Iuz.
Xendros and Thokk (who is a worshiper of Iuz) are going back to Iuz.
Liup’s ritual- not continuous, maybe just needed the place, not the writing on the stones
Gratz was the father of Iuz
The spawn of gratz is “mostly” in Iuz now
Zendros and Thokk worship Iuz and are in Iuz now (or headed that way)
The Raven Queen knows any secret Eda knew
The spawn of Gratz is Iuz, a demi-god
The realm Kellen sees is the city called Sigle (?) in the outlands, the center of the great wheel, overlaps the prime material plane. It’s the true neutral realm, gateway between all the worlds.
There are two gods who live in the outlands, Bachab, and Zagyg.
Zagyg was the mad archmage who built castle Greyhawk. He ruled Greyhawk hundreds of years ago, it was attacked a few times by Iuz. Last time Iuz attacked, Greyhawk was destroyed, the army attacked the castle, neither Iuz nor Zagyg were ever seen again. More info on the website.

Questions for Kellen to ask Zagyg
Who is the main brotherhood leader? Where are they?
Is MK’s demon connected in any way to the SoG?

Session 41 - July 18, 2021

We are exhausted. Sleep is very much needed. Arienh and Mornie go back to their house with Kellen, Airell goes to his house and MK goes to Zendros’ house.

Eda’s daughter hands Arienh some documents. Turns out Arienh’s family is related to Eda’s. Iuz is out to destroy the extended families of the generals who betrayed them - this includes Arienh’s and Eda’s. Ferrin knew about this and told Eda. It is dated four days after Skerrin fled from Saltmarsh. Eda stated that she was too much of a coward to give her the letter. The betrayal happened 600 years ago.

Turns out that Zagyg was the one who trapped Iuz beneath Castle Greyhawk. He is a demigod. 70 years ago someone let out Iuz. Kellen is actually talking to Zagyg whenever she needs information. That’s fascinating! Maybe he will help us find out about how to deal with Iuz.

More history dump: Iuz in the 2nd invasion, Iouz sacked Greyhawk. He and his army went into the Castle and never came out. The vampire Arienh talked to was actually present when Iuz was trapped.

After getting back to our respective houses, we try to sleep, but are jolted awake by thunder (except for Kellen). There is a flash of lightning and it lights up the ground near where we are sleeping.

Mornie and Arienh go and start looking. The lightning is striking near the water. The lightning strikes Siren’s point and we can see that something is moving there. Whatever it is, it isn’t big.

Mornie and Arienh go to check it out. MK joins them partway across the water (this water walk thing is SO AWESOME!). They walk across the water and then climb up the ropes. We stealthily go towards the place and see a shape darting around. There are wind chimes that cause shrieks hanging from many of the trees. The shape keeps capering around. Oh gods, is Wellgar the Priest of Procan. He is clutching in his hand a jellyfish and then chucks it at the standing stone. They see that there are remnants of other dead sea animals at the base of each of the stones. He’s been at it a while. He’s trying to cleanse and appease Procan(based off what Arienh has seen him do before.) Wellgar is in a frenzied state and is a bit crazy.

We notice that the spiral is carved on each of the stones and is somehow repelling the rain water - just like it’s covered in oil. The carvings are new. Mornie remembers that she did not find any stone carving tools with any of the bodies and she tells MK and Arienh.

Wellgar continues his chanting and throws coins at the water to give to Procan.

Mornie starts looking around to see if there are any stone carving tools in the area. She finds a strange semi-circle around one of the trees. One of the roots is visible and obviously been recently exposed.

Arienh digs into the area and finds a backpack (she was a dog.) MK and Mornie find a variety of things - a set of stone carver’s tools, four sending stones (one set is a pair), and three belt pouches (120 silver, 70 electrum (Baklunish markings), 85 gold, 6 amethysts shaped like marbles (100 gp each), 14 flat moonstones (like they would be placed in an amulet) (50 gp each)). This takes about a half hour. Wellgar is still drinking salt water (and puking at times), throwing sea animals, and then throwing silver/gold/pearls into the sea. Gross.

Question: is it possible to find the matching pair for the sending stones?

Arienh investigates the stones and the words are in Old Oridian. She notices that in random places the spiral has been carved in (15-20 places per stone.) She feels a warmth radiating off them. She can tell that there’s a pattern to the carvings.

With nothing left to do, and they’re still exhausted, MK, Mornie, and Arienh all walk back to the mainland. The storm is lessening and they can see that it’s dawn. They change clothes and Kellen wakes up. They fill her in. Airell heads over to Arienh’s house and Mornie lets him in; she briefs him. Mornie, MK, and Arienh sleep - finally.

In the mid-morning, we get up and start walking through the town. A makeshift cross-beam has been built. Hanging from it are the headless bodies of Liup, Streth, and Nehmeir - heavily mutilated. Airell asks Kellen if she knows of any goldsmiths. She says her father might know some.

Anders is standing in front of the bodies, shaking. He stops and picks up a makeshift club and slowly approaches Streth’s body and hits it. He goes a bit crazy hitting the body and ends up slipping on the ground. Airell and Mornie reach him first and give him hands to help him up. The rest of the IT crew follow quickly. Airell pulls him up and Anders’ rage leaves him. Airell tells him that Skerrin is alive. Anders looks confused and then asks what we need of him. Airell tells him that he doesn’t know, but he does understand what it means to be betrayed by someone you are close to. He then asks Arienh, “Why? Why would you help me?” She shrugs. He says, “You know where I am. I should get back, I guess.”

We head down to the dock. There are lots of bodies in the streets and the IT crew is regarded with respect. The Gnomes are all over the “Bastion.” The Falling Star is heavily damaged. Ingo the Drover is dead - led the town militia in a last stand. Jasker Skystride (the one Kellen lived with) was killed in the fire that destroyed the smithy. His mother is near death. Not far from Gellan’s house we see Kester and he is holding the still body of Bait. From the boats, there is a continuous stream of small boats with those who are injured and dead.

We go back up to Siren’s point. The gnomes are picking through all of the rubble and are cheerful about the entire situation. We see Wellgar and Arienh tries to throw a Goodberry into his mouth. It misses. Mornie tries and hits him in the face. He recognizes us now and then points at Kellen. He talked about the Darkened Skies and it is angry, e.g. Procon. Mornie asks how we can help. He points at Kellen again and he says that the eye of the deep is looking for her. The stones are defiled.

Airell investigates the tree.

Kellen is creeped out by Wellgar and she then casts “Comprehend Languages” to understand the stones.

Mornie and Arienh try to get him to eat a goodberry. Mornie makes it one time into his mouth and it causes him to vomit. They then stop.

Kellen feels the Grimrore of the Deep is starting to move towards the stones. She reads the stones and can see that they were originally there for Procan so that fishing would be plentiful at Saltmarsh. The ritual repeats several times around the stone, but the symbol for the Chained Oblivion covers in certain spots to change the ritual. Mornie runs over with the stone carving tools and carves out all of the symbols. Wellgar slumps once all the symbols are gone and starts retching out the sea water. Arienh finally shoves a goodberry in his mouth and then gives him water.

Kellen tells us that the Kraken is not coming. That’s a relief.

We cross back over on the rope bridge. We go to the dwarven mining company and they let us in. The council is meeting in the back - lots of chaos. Gellan, Ministred, Hubrorin (priest of St. Cuthbert), Anders, Ma Garrett, Darven, and lots of dwarves.

Ma Garrett tried to get another election (selfishly), but Airell came in and said that there’s an odd number and no need for another election. Gellan agreed.

Hubrorin brought up the point that there are bodies in the street and Ministred said that he could go and deal with it. Turns out that Eda really focused the council and her leadership is sorely missed. About a third of the population is missing, 400 are confirmed dead, and at least a thousand are wounded.. It’s likely the final amount of people dead will be 2 or 3 times what it is now. Ministred sends Hubrorin to deal with the people who are dead. Gellan says, “But not Eda. She needs to be buried with her husband.”

Mornie brings up that the IT crew wanted to question Varsis. Ma Garrett tries to undermine the council, but Mornie ignores her. Hubrorin states that the IT crew can be trusted. Gellan snaps out of it and says, “Of course! They can question Varsis.”

Anders said, “I think I can help with two of the problems.” Gellan motions him over. Anders offers his place as a hospital. He also offers up his salted fish warehouse to feed the people. Ma Garrett said that the ovens in the grove will be available and free of charge.

More bad news: Will Stoutly died as well as our bosen on the Falling Star. This is an emotional hit on everyone.

Three problems: man power for protection is down by half, the cannons are left at the cove, the Bastion is salvageable, but we need two hundred tons of stone.

Darven introduces Tilvasool Skiploon. She has been working in the corner designing things. She says that the Bastion can definitely be fixed, but we need time and materials. Kellan recognizes the family name of this gnome - definitely a creative bunch of engineers.

Ministred then looks to the IT crew and asks what we know. Kellen starts stating that there’s another fight coming and before she can finish, the warning bell sounds.

On the horizon we see 5 black ships heading our way. Ministred recognizes them and says, “It’s Eliander.”

We hold back Gellan and Ministred and tell them that Skerrin is back. Airell states that we believe Skerrin was brought back, just like N and Liup. They were all taken by the priests of St. Cuthbert.

We mention that there is an attack coming within the next ten days. Getting our defenses up must be a priority. Mornie fills in them regarding the status of the stones on Siren’s Point and to take care of Wellgar. Gellan tries to brush her off, but she insists as the stones are important for the continued productivity of Saltmarsh. He listens and acknowledges the importance.

We head down to the dock to meet Eliander. It’s the entire fleet that has come. Eliander comes to the dock and offers to help. Eliander asks Mornie to stop by at sunset. Gellan asks the IT crew to stop by to collect their reward from the coffee plantation from Merod, his foreman. He gave us 250 gp each.

We head to the jail to talk to Varsis. Kraddick is there and he tells us the status - Varsis is awake and doesn’t have anything of value aside from the armor.

They go into the cell and ask him why. He says it’s because it was his mission and the Raven Queen told him to kill Eda. Mornie asks how he knew, and he replies that the raven showed him. She then strikes him and knocks him out. She knew he was speaking the truth.

We walk out and leave the jail. Everyone splits up until Eliander’s meeting at sunset. Airell goes to where Eliander is looking for Anders. Airell brings up his experience in the jail at Seaton without saying that it was him (the captain killing himself after being visited by priests of St. Cuthbert.) Airell then goes to find Anders.

Mornie is helping to move bodies. With the arrival of the ships, the wounded people who have been moving non-stop are finally able to rest and start to heal.

Airell goes to the Falling Star and offers to help.

Mornie runs into Sorrell at Eliander’s place. She talks about the damage to the ships and Mornie reminds her about our ability to breathe water.

Eliander apologizes to Mornie about before, the last time they met. She thanks him.

They go on a walk and he offers his house to her. Eliander says that there’s enough space for the entire IT Crew to stay there. He then says Varsis will be hung tomorrow. She is fine with that (oddly enough). Eda’s funeral is tomorrow in the morning - Varsis dies after that.

Eliander leaves and Mornie clears off the front deck, but refuses to go any further than that. Mornie walks back to Arienh’s house.

Airell helps with the Falling Star with patching the holes on the hull.

Eda’s funeral has a procession from Uphill to the cemetery. At the funeral, Eliander gave a eulogy and then everyone threw flowers into her grave.

Arienh notices a raven landing on the edge of a bridge. Varsis is brought to the hanging. He takes a long time to die and they leave his body there hanging. We know he is dead when the raven leaves.

Kellen, Mornie, and Airell clean up the house a little bit. It’s in very bad shape. Mornie is glad that she can stop breathing to avoid the horrid stench.

Ferrin visits Arienh in her house in a dream. He said that the Raven Queen probably did her a favor. Eda was never going to have the courage to give her the letter. Ferrin tells Arienh to get her butt in gear and that she’s in the right place. He tells her that he’s very proud of her. The dream ends and Arienh sees that the storm has ended and a frog jumps off her window sill.

Session 42 - July 24, 2021
Couple days later - things are getting restored. Meals are becoming repetitive. Darwin returns with cannons, and ship repairs are going as scheduled.

The day after Eda’s funeral Eliander visits Mornie while we’re clearing out the house. He brought a small disk with a seal of Seaton, on the back is number 80. It’s a pass to show at the gate and we will be allowed to stay at the fortress. Try not to abuse it. Number corresponds with the herald’s record. Any of us can show up with it.
Second item - the deed to his house. Mornie and Airell make a copy of it and put it in a secure place.

Anders comes over to see Arienh. He asks her to heal the blacksmith that’s not doing well at all. After Arienh goes to the hospital to see her she knows only Greater Restoration will help. After some deliberation and completing the long rest, she uses the last of diamond dust to save the blacksmith.

Kellen got asked on a date by a very awkward Nolan Oneshoe. He also brought her a chamber pot as a housewarming gift - very practical. She reluctantly agrees, but surprisingly has a good time.


Cleaning and repairing the house is in full swing. Kellen makes some designs for fans on the back porch.

At some point the ship’s cook shows up and says she doesn’t want to be on the Falling Star anymore. After some talking she’s hired as a housekeeper. Her husband, son and brother in law come as part of a bundle too. Good thing there are lots of rooms. They start cleaning out the house.

MK decorates her room a bit - with a big mirror.

Mornie buys a very pretty dress. Now we need a special occasion. Skerrin-is-finally-dead party is in order when we get to him.

Airell needs to perform some sort of ritual. Kellen writes him an introduction to Haalnis Millybonk, a goldsmith in Seaton her family used to work with. Airell orders a mask. He also needs Kellen’s help with the magic component of the ritual. But they need to wait until new moon.

Arienh asks if anyone wants to accompany her to challenge and Archdruid with a pet dragon turtle after we’re done with Skerrin. That sounds fun. Mornie also remembered that we saw a corpse of a dragon turtle while sailing at some point. Was it the same??

Finally, Arienh scries on Skerrin. She sees him naked in a bathtub. Urdem Cannar comes to talk to him. They are definitely planning a big thing. She sees them talk to 3 captains about going to an undisclosed location. Captains are not happy with it, and it sounds like one of them is planning to conspire with some pirates to backstab Skerrin.
Skerrin also mentions a Monmurg expedition with 3 more ships.
He also knows IT crew is coming for him.

He’s in Port Toli right now, and is planning to take a bunch of slaves out to sea for some ritual.
Mornie triangulates where they are heading. We have a target! They are going to a Kraken, that’s in the Sorrowful place. Kellen felt a pull coming from there before.




Need to assemble ships.

Falling Star is not fully repaired, but ready to go if needed. After talking to the counsel we realize we need more ships. Stunning everyone, Anders speaks up in favor of giving us most of the seaworthy ships, because we haven’t been wrong about stuff before. So we get a ship from Eliander - Fury of Gradsul. All of the best soldiers also join us (remaining dockwatch, veterans, dwarf musketeers, and marines).

Arienh has another weird dream, but not as weird as the last one. Just some ominous shadows that let her choose her spells again.

Timeline:
16th - Arienh Scry on Skerrin and learn about everything.
17th - Saltmarsh ships are ready to sail. Will take 2.5 days
18th - Skerrin is planning to sail. Will take 1.5 days
20th - The big battle!
To do
Find out about the artifacts
Find the Kraken? - the Sorrowful Place
Get more diamonds
Figure out Mornie’s weapon unlocking
Fix the ships - doneish
Find Skerrin (AGAIN!) - meeting at the Sorrowful Place.

Questions
What happened to MK? What powers did she get?
What happens if Kellan the Herald comes in contact with the Eye in the Deep?
What do we do with the Kraken if we find it?
Can we re-bind the magic of the Obelisks?
What is a ‘place of sorrow’ the Kraken might stop at? Found it
What was the effect of Liup’s spell or was it interrupted before it was finished?
Can Zagyg give us more info on Iuz to stop him?
Can we find the pairs to the sending stones we found? Nope

Question to Zagyg:
Where’s the Archdruid
What’s up with dragon turtle.

Important (?) Stuff We Know
The eye of the deep has seen us all.
There is something else big out there
The Sahuagin have appropriated ancient Oeridian ritual (does it matter?)
Iuz is looking for Arienh and Eda’s family (they are descendants from the generals who betrayed Iuz)
Xendros and Thokk (who is a worshiper of Iuz) are going back to Iuz.
Liup’s ritual- not continuous, maybe just needed the place, not the writing on the stones
Gratz was the father of Iuz
The spawn of gratz is “mostly” in Iuz now
Zendros and Thokk worship Iuz and are in Iuz now (or headed that way)
The Raven Queen knows any secret Eda knew
The spawn of Gratz is Iuz, a demi-god
The realm Kellen sees is the city called Sigle (?) in the outlands, the center of the great wheel, overlaps the prime material plane. It’s the true neutral realm, gateway between all the worlds.
There are two gods who live in the outlands, Bachab, and Zagyg.
Zagyg was the mad archmage who built castle Greyhawk. He ruled Greyhawk hundreds of years ago, it was attacked a few times by Iuz. Last time Iuz attacked, Greyhawk was destroyed, the army attacked the castle, neither Iuz nor Zagyg were ever seen again. More info on the website.

Questions for Kellen to ask Zagyg
Who is the main brotherhood leader? Where are they?
Is MK’s demon connected in any way to the SoG?

Session 43 - October 10, 2021

16th Ready’reat - We prep the ship and meet Capt. Rirben of the Fury of Gradsul.
17th - More prep?
18th - People start to board the ships - Falling star and Fury of Gradsul

Captain Sohral is wearing a breastplate with dents and the symbol of Heironeous on the front. When Mornie sees it she snaps into a memory of the battle of Monmurg. Sohral was there and Mornie saw when her breastplate was dented.

When Tom Stoutly and Tiell Diquise try to board Sohral tells them they can stay, no one would fault them. They push past her onto the ship.

The ships set sail. Mornie talks to Sohral. Mornie tells her she saw her in a memory and she understands what putting on that breastplate means, even if no one else does and it’s a good thing. Sohral is not proud of what happened at Monmurg (Is this the right reading of what she said? I missed part of this conversation). Only the chance to get back at Skerrin made her put on the breastplate again. Sohral is also from the Sea Grove.

Airell’s owl keeps an eye out for Skerrin’s ship. It can see far.

Tiell glares at MK. And it’s not because MK has awesome hair. Tiell says she doesn’t believe in heroes. There are people who kill and people who don’t.

Volan is appreciative of Mornie’s navigating skills and says it’s good to have the Admiral back.

20th, morning - The owl spies 5 sails about 2 hours away, in formation. Arienh and Kellen cast walk on water on the crew. We get the wind advantage.

There is ship maneuvering, the Deceit rams the Falling Star, hand to hand combat ensues. There are weird creatures on the Deceit, led by a Celoise man.

Kellen makes Skerrin see the people from the Sea Grove that he killed, stabbing him.

MK disintegrates Skerrin. Why is MK flaming? Arienh has questions.

Arienh takes some ashes and items from the pile that was Skerrin.

Fury of Gradsul and Falling Star sailors mop up.

1 ship is missing a mast, 3 we have captured, 1 is out to sea and surrenders (Marrow).

Airell searched the adept and found nothing on him.
Airell runs detect magic (robe of sorcerer, erdum Kanar’s pistol and something else on belt).
Arienh finds on Skerrin - Clear jar of healing potion of some kind

Session 44 - October 7, 2021
Aftermath of the Skerrin Battle - Release the Kraken!

Arienh walks over the MK and heals her. MK wakes up groggy.

Casualties from the battle -
Falling Star - 6 crew dead, lots injured
	Fury of Gradsul - light casualties
	Pirates - lots and lots are dead and injured

Airell goes over to the Deceit. He searches the captain’s cabin because...well, that’s what he does. He found maps, 7 sets of nice clothing (2 dresses (15 gp each) and 5 suits - tailored for a woman), 2 sacks of coins (60 gp and 250 silver). He puts everything into his bag of holding.

Back on the Falling Star, Mornie finishes cutting off the heads of the Brotherhood creeps and picks up the belt and pistol from Urdem. Mornie, Kellen, Arienh, and MK discuss going over to the Deceit. In preparation, Kellen starts to cast the ritual detect magic. She starts feeling extremely sick, so much that she stops the ritual. The sick feeling goes away. She tells Mornie, who looks worried and asks if Kellen would mind trying a different spell to see if she gets the same reaction. Kellen tries a different spell and feels the nausea again, but she feels it radiating from the Deceit. Specifically, the hull.

The four head over to the Deceit to get a closer look at what’s going on. They enter the room right next to the hull and see that the floor of the room is covered with a geometric pattern. Kellen tries to go in and look, but is overwhelmed with immense pressure once she enters the room. She quickly turns her head, takes a few steps to the side, and throws up. She shudders from the effect of being poisoned, but is unsure what caused it. In between heaves, she hears a low chant that is below everyone else’s ability to hear.

Arienh sees the pattern as an incantation and recognizes the writing as being Selouise. It’s a binding spell and is supposed to control something. After examining a little more closely, she sees that the black paint is squid ink and the slight shimmer is diamond dust. It appears that a portion of the spell has been burnt into the deck, but it’s not at the beginning of the spell.

Mornie searches the room and finds two large chests tied to a bed. She also finds a spell book with plain blue leather, which she immediately hands off to Arienh. “See what you can make of this.” Arienh nods, grasping the book. After opening up the chests, Mornie sees them full of silver coins. She turns to sick Kellen and asks her to open up the portable hole so that the chests can be put inside. With tears streaming down her eyes and wiping off a bit of vomit on her chin, Kellen weakly pulls out the hole and throws it onto the deck. Mornie and MK quickly put the chests into the hole. Mornie folds up the hole and gently hands it back to Kellen.

Vohen peaks into the room and sees Mornie. He gestures to her quickly and she walks briskly to his side. He tells her that he and his team found the captain of the Merrow below deck. Mornie sees Airell walk up and she asks him to come down below deck with her to investigate. He nods. She tells Arienh and MK where they are going.

Arienh barely acknowledges her because she’s absorbed in translating the spell book. It’s brand new, without any additional notes in the margins, and it describes three rituals:
Get creature’s attention (sacrifice 3 souls)
Bind creature to obey (sacrifice 300 souls)
Imbue creature with power of Chained Oblivion (3000 souls)

Oh my, Arienh thinks. The first ritual was on the Standing Stones at Saltmarsh. The second ritual is here on the deck. It doesn’t appear complete. Were we in time to stop it?

Arienh mentions to MK what she found in the spellbook. Kellen overhears, barely, and recognizes the description of the spells as they are in the Grimoire of the Deep (DM note: but she does not share this with anyone). Wrenching her gaze over to the drawing, she sees that the ritual has not been started. In fact, the ritual has been ruined as they jumped to the part of sacrificing the souls.

Kellen gasps out, “The ritual...it’s ruined. They...didn’t start….at the beginning. (gags). See,” and she points with her finger to the burned portion, “the burned in….section...was where...they started.”

Arienh and MK look at each other in relief.

“The treant...the old one...had the...same spell as...here.” Kellen continues to struggle with the nausea, but she’s determined to say this. “It….must have been a...prototype.”

“Then let’s burn this thing before anyone else can do anything with it,” says Arienh. Arienh tries to burn away the spell, but it doesn’t do anything. She clenches her jaw in frustration. There’s nothing more to do here. These blasted Brotherhood fools.

Kellen looks up at Arienh and MK through her watery eyes, “Could I ...have some help...please?” They look startled and jump to help her out of the room.

Airell and Mornie go down below deck with Vohen and Tom Stoutly. They see a man, a woman, and two children in chains. The man says that he is Captain Jommu and that Skerrin killed his two oldest sons on the Merrow. Skerrin knew that he was going to double-cross him. After some cross-examination, Airell and Mornie believe him and Airell unlocks their chains. They escort the captain and his family above decks to be brought to the Falling Star.

When they get to the deck, Arienh recognizes Jommu from her scrying and asks him slyly, “How did your double-cross go?” Jammu looks surprised, and is shocked into muteness. Mornie firmly grasps his arm and continues to escort him onto the Falling Star. Arienh sees that Mornie has a slight smirk on her face.

When the IT Crew gets onto the deck, they see that Captain Sohral is talking to a half-orc who is the supposed captain of the Gargoyle. He says his name is Ekked and that he is the injured party in this battle - we attacked him. Mornie glances at Arienh to confirm that he is who he says he is, and Arienh gives a slight nod in affirmation. While listening to Ekked’s completely wrong version of the events, MK gently helps Kellen to the side to sit down. Kellen appears a little better, but is still a bit green around the edges. MK notices that her breathing gets better the farther away she is from the Deceit. After questioning Ekked a bit, they find out that the Brotherhood did not want any slaves of Selouise blood. That sounds familiar. Ekked also claimed that the dog people were brought on to his ship with a handler and that his crew had nothing to do with the actions of the Brotherhood.

Mornie has a flash of a very faint memory of seeing the dog people on an island where it's very hot. She was on a boat and saw three shapes standing on the beach - a man in a red tunic with two dog people flanking him. They were obviously a protection detail. The memory fades.

Jommu speaks up and demands to talk to Captain Sohral. He wants to claim his innocence. Sohral sighs, “Once we send a group over to the Merrow..” She pauses. Frowns. “Wait, who’s that coming here in that longboat?” She squints. “Oh shit, it’s Airell. What has he done now?” Sohral points to the longboat and we see that Airell is in the longboat along with a few sailors from the Merrow. The IT Crew realizes that Airell left them when they were escorting Jommu to the Falling Star. Typical Airell. He must have water-walked.

**** Airell’s side story
Airell left immediately after Mornie took control of transporting Jommu and his family to the Falling Star. He water-walked over to the Merrow and startled the crew there with his approach. A half-elf bosun yelled down at him, “Hey, we want to negotiate terms.” Airell replied, “Sure. Let me come up.” She nodded and he climbed up.

Once he was on the deck, Airell was shown the three remaining Brotherhood tied to the mast looking a bit a lot worse for wear. He took in that the crew rebelled against Skerrin’s people and that the three tied up were the bargaining chips to get their captain back and to be let go. Airell convinces the bosun that he can take her and a couple of others over to the Falling Star to negotiate terms. She agrees.

****
Airell brings the bosun and a few others from the Merrow to the Falling Star. He tells them that they have to give up their weapons while on the Falling Star. When they give up their weapons, he purposefully walks the weapons over to Mornie and says, “Here you go, Admiral. These are the representatives from the Merrow. They want to negotiate terms.” He grins at Mornie’s expression of annoyance and struts away.

After some discussion, the IT crew finds out that the Monmurgh expedition set sail a day after the slave group left. The Monmurgh expedition and the killing of the slaves were supposed to happen at the same time - sunset tomorrow.

Kellen, who is starting to feel better, takes the spellbook from Arienh and starts to analyze it. She realizes that it has the same rituals as in her Grimoire of the Deep, but it’s missing all of the explanations. It’s very, very new.

Airell suggests to the IT crew to try and delay the Monmurgh expedition by trying the sending stones. He mimics Skerrin’s voice as best as he could, but it wasn’t good enough. One of the sending stones does get a response, “Who is…?” but it gets cut off. The second stone has no response. We still have no idea where the stones are located.

The IT crew says to let the Merrow go and that they needed to dispose of the three Brotherhood. Mornie coldly tells them to make sure that they are all beheaded.

The Fury of Gradsul is sent back to Saltmarsh with the four remaining ships. The goal is to keep 2 at Saltmarsh and 2 get sent to Seaton. 1 of the chests of 15,000 silver is split between the Fury and the Falling Star.  The sailors are SOOO happy right now.

Additional items that were found:
2 black velvet masquerade masks (15 gp each)
5 copper chalices with silver filigree (25 gp each)
1 superior healing potion
2 jars of Keoghom’s Ointment
Robe of useful items (provided to Mornie)
Magic Bullets (8) +2 to hit; +2 to damage (Mornie)

****
While on the Falling Star as it’s heading to the Styes, Arienh goes to MK to talk about her “episode.” MK at first denies everything. Grudgingly she admits that she has always had this “friend” and that Xendros helped her with this inner demon. Arienh carefully encourages MK to talk a little more and she finds out that when MK is possessed (like with the disgusting Sgothgah), that the possessor can bring out the demon. Also, it turns out that Xendros called on Iuz to help MK deal with her inner demon. This means that Xendros is very, very powerful.

Mornie and Kellen are hiding in the hallway and overhear the whole conversation. They both have flashes of memory when listening to MK confide in Arienh. They share with each other what they remember.
Kellen sees Drawmij examine MK. Turns out MK is a created being.
Mornie remembers Drawmij commanding her to keep an eye on MK.

Kellen recognizes the spells on MK’s hand as being extremely powerful.

Later that night, Kellen decides to contact the other plane. She asks Zagyg the following questions:
How do we stop the ritual? Answer: Do what your captain is doing.
Would it help if I destroy my book? Answer: No.
Where is the kraken? Answer: Near.
Where was the [new] book made? Answer: The Tilvanot peninsula.
Who made MK? Answer: Nenredhe.

****
Night passes. It’s rainy and gusty. Rumbles of sound as they approach the Styes. Recognition - it’s canonfire!

3 ships are seen bombarding the Styes. Sohral makes the quick decision to move the Falling Star into the fog and come upon the 3 ships quickly. Her plan:
Bombard the 1st ship with our cannons
IT team attacks the 2nd ship
Falling Star rams the 3rd ship and the Dockwatch finishes off anyone who’s left

Kellen casts sickening radiance on the 1st ship and kills the entire crew. Arienh casts lightning and starts bringing down lightning strikes on the 2nd ship. Airell, Mornie, and MK assault the ship and kill them off.

Then a rolling blackness comes up from the bottom of the ocean. It surrounds the 2nd ship. The sailors who fall into it die quickly.

Then, a tentacle comes around the Falling Star. Another one wraps around the 2nd ship. Oh shit! It’s the kraken!

The IT crew starts attacking the kraken and quickly come to realize that anything non-magical just bounces off. MK gets thrown off the ship and Airell quickly dodges out of the way of the kraken. Mornie pulls out the Memory of Ruin and successfully stabs the kraken. When the kraken’s blood touches the sword, it shudders and shakes, causing Mornie to almost drop it. It glows and Mornie says, “What the f…” which is amplified for all to hear. She feels a cold fury crawl up from the sword around her entire body, giving her extra protection. Oh my gods. The sword is awakened, Mornie is startled into thinking. She quickly withdraws the sword and sprints up the ship. The kraken breaks the ship in half and she loses her footing, starting to slide towards the break.

Kellen tries to attack the kraken and is quickly taken to the place where Zagyg always meets her. He tells her that she has a choice. She needs to decide to either give up the kraken and her connection to the Chained Oblivion, or to stay with it and have the kraken tied to her forever. If she breaks the connection, he tells her to go to the bottom of his castle in Greyhawk and find his book.

Kellen is transported back to reality and makes the snap decision to break her pact. Her owl eye melts and becomes a white goo that slides down her face. The rod of the pact keeper breaks with a thunderous clap. Kellen turns her one eye to the kraken and says under her breath, “Stay there, you mean creature. You may not hurt my friends.” She waves her hands and mutters the words to hold the kraken in place. It works.

A blast of blue light shows up to Kellen’s right and Drawmij steps next to her. He yells to the IT crew to get out of there and to make it to the small point of land. Gesturing with his hands, another dimension door shows up and he grabs Kellen and steps through.


Session 45 - November 14, 2021

Hey guys, we are fighting a Kraken!

Last time on Let’s Try Not To Die:
The kraken is crushing the Falling Star.
Drawmige says “Run for the beach” and vanishes with Kellen.
The Grimoire is left spasming on the deck.

So what do we do?
MK starts running toward the beach, Airell shoots at the Grimoire (which his owl is flying with), Arienh conjures constrictor snakes that grapple the Kraken, Mornie loads her gun and follows MK.

Drawmige and Kellen appear on the opposite side of the Kraken from the beach we are headed to. Drawmige tells Kellen to cast a spell to get the Kraken’s attention. He says the Kraken will follow her wherever she goes.

The Kraken inks, then goes for Kellen.

In the Styes Kellen sees thugs fighting, buildings burning, Emperor Mon leading a troop. Once the Kraken gets close, Drawmige and Kellen teleport to the beach where the rest of us are headed. The Falling Star has gotten free and is limping back out to sea.

Kellen casts rainbow sharks and we run for her spot. So does the Kraken. Drawmige starts to cast a transportation spell and we prepare to hold off the Kraken.

It does not go well.

Arienh’s hawk tries to take the immovable rod to hold the Kraken but gets killed in-route and we lose the rod.

The constrictor snake misses the grapple.

We all do as much damage as we can but it isn’t working. Kraken lightnings Arienh and grapples Mornie, Kellen pushes it and breaks the grapple. Arienh and Mornie are looking hurt.

Airell’s owl dies and the Grimore is now swimming and flopping in the water.

The lightning gets Drawmige and breaks his concentration so the transportation spell fails. Airell goes next and runs away to keep everyone from being bunched up for the Kraken to lightning again. Drawmige is next, looks at Airell like “What the hell are you doing??” and teleports the rest of us away. But Airell is out of range for the spell.

Airell is now alone on the beach with the Kraken. He runs.

Eventually the Kraken turns around and heads back out to sea. Kellen must have cast a spell.

The rest of us find ourselves in a small, smelly, metal room. There is a staircase and a window looking into the water. 30 ft UNDER the water. Drawmige welcomes us to the Sea Cow, an underwater ship.

Meanwhile Airell: Got Grimoire, waited for the water to clear, looked for immovable rod in vain, walked to Emperor Mon’s place and confirmed destruction and found no bodies.


Things we know about the Kraken:
Has true sight
Moves 20ft per round on land and 60ft per round in the water
Resistant to lightning and fire when in water
Can’t be frightened or paralyzed
Its ink is poisonous

Inspiration goes to: Airell

November 21

Airell.
Airell did outrun the kraken and made it to the Styes. He was maybe hoping to sneak around and find refuge at Harid’s old safe house. However Styes met him with complete anarchy. People starting fires, people putting off fires, pillagers and scavengers going through the rubble, people fighting each other.
Of course Airell couldn’t miss an opportunity to add to the chaos. Disguising self as Emperor Mon and shouting nonsense he ran through the streets, attacking when he had a chance and retreating when he was outnumbered.
To his disappointment the safe house looked completely ruined when he got to it. Airell tried Rashlin’s house next, but it looked like somebody already moved in. While crossing through Alchemist’s quarter he gets Red Face from the haze lurking there.
After a while he finds an abandoned warehouse and beds there for the night.

Sea Cow.
Everyone else + Drawmij safely teleported to the Sea Cow. The underwater vessel is about 40 ft long and 20 ft wide, and has a number of cool features. The hull can be made fully transparent and allow for things to pass through to the outside (don’t lean on the glass!). There’s Drawmij’s study with books and alchemy station and who knows what else. Kitchen has a “replicator” that can make a passable version of any food and drink.
Drawmij also has a Scrying sphere and immediately checks in on Airell who is running for his life.
The Sea Cow is about 60 miles South West of Gradsul, and 150 miles from where the kraken is.

Kraken.
Kraken is fast (120+ miles per day) and can sense Kellen. So it will be coming this way.  If we try to escape on the Sea Cow, Drawmij estimates at most 5 days before the Kraken could catch up. Kraken also knows about Kellen’s family and friends and might start attacking them if it gets too angry and can’t get to her.
The brotherhood and the aboleth used some ritual to age kraken quickly, so it has a full grown body with a young and unstable mind.

Kellen.
Kellen has not been completely open about the ritual. The ritual book they found is the same as the one she performed to obtain her pact. Consulting with Drawmij it seems that her ritual was not complete either, since it required sacrificing 3 people.
The worrying thing is that Grimoire fell in the water. It can be found by someone else now who might complete the ritual.
Kellen tries to summon Grimoire back to her, but no avail. While casting she feels someone staring angrily at her.
Kellen is also an honorary member of the (slave trading) police of Hokar. By complete accident, obviously.

Mornie.
Drawmij mostly speaks to Mornie. He asks if she did any research on the kraken in the last year. He’s quite disappointed by the answer. They talk about how Mornie was created and her task to keep and eye on MK and neutralize her if necessary.
Drawmij says he’s been trying to contact Mornie using Dream, only to realize that she doesn’t sleep. Even archmages make mistakes.

MK.
MK asks to use the chamber pot and Drawmij decides to make walls transparent at that exact moment. Hilarity ensures.
MK’s parentage comes up even though she tries to not talk about it. Her story about her childhood changes every time. Drawmij says that she is the first attempt he and Nenredhe had creating a soldier from multiple souls.
Her body is the daughter of a wealthy landowner from the Yeomanry. The girl died in an accident. However, the spell to create Mornie 1.0 went wrong and she ended up with a demon inside instead. The demon burst out, killed Drawmij’s clone that was there and fought Nenredhe. Drawmij teleported back there to help fight it, and they all escaped.  When he returned there was no sign of it anymore. He thought the demon just burnt away, until they spotted MK traveling some time later.
The ritual that Xendros performed helps MK control the demon. It lasts a year and nobody knows what will happen when it fades.
MK faints from the news.

Drawmij.
.. has a lot of problems. This past summer, the Kraken destroyed his underwater citadel where he was storing two of his clones. Another clone was killed in the mansion (last year). So this version of him was stuck on Celene until he could come back 5 days ago. He also doesn’t have a spell book at the moment and is very excited to hear that one of his is on the Falling Star.
The whole reason he started experimenting with creating soldiers is that he was killed eight years ago. He was going to a meeting with other mages (the Circle of Eight) and then he just died… So he decided to create an army of infiltrators, who will not be mages themselves but will be highly skilled at other things. He found Nenredhe and they started experimenting on it. They would take a recently dead body, heal the physical damage, and scrub the soul. Then they would put a new soul into this shell. Just one soul wasn’t good enough, so they started combining souls. The experiment with MK didn’t work, but they figured it out after that. Mornie is a proof of that.
What we know about him:
Flaw: Secrecy, doesn’t trust anyone.
HP < 77
Lvl > 11
Con < 14


The plan(s).
Drawmij had a plan of going to Gradsul and shooting kraken with all the cannons it has. He was hoping there’s enough magic in the gunpowder to do damage. That is not the case as Mornie tried with her pistols.
He laughs at the suggestion of going to the Sea Mages and say they are completely incompetent and will be more trouble than help.
FInally someone remembers that Airell has a scroll of teleportation to Hokar or Grayhwalk that we took from the Brothetrhood. Drawmij knows the archmage in Hokar, and he’s also the one producing all the gunpowder. So the plan is to go there.

Action.
Next morning, after scrying on Airell, Drawmij teleports everyone to his location. But he’s apparently tired, because teleport doesn’t go smoothly and they get bounced around a bit, taking some damage.
 After a quick debrief, Airell takes out his scroll. Drawmij, Airell and Kellen copy the sigils of teleportation circles for future use, and then Drawmij casts the spell.
They end up in a dark room. Standing around a table with a rug under it. There are bookshelves with travel guides all around them. They hear talking behind the wall.
Airell goes to peek behind the door, and someone spots him. The door is open and there’s a guy with a symbol of Fharlanghn standing there. He starts a greeting, but then notices MK and Kellen and yells “It’s them! The Keolanders are here!” that’s the guy that answered the sending stone!

Session 45 - December 4, 2021

The priest of the temple of Fharlanghn tells everyone to kill us. So we kill him instead. Serves him right And everyone else who fights us. Except one whom we keep alive. Arienh’s hold person works better than Drawmij’s. The normal people run away.

Airell searches the apothecary and finds letters written in code to look like invoices. They are actually about slaves and goods being transported. One is from Skerrin go figure about the slaves used in the ritual with the kraken. Airell also finds poison to put on weapons.

Kellen looks out the window and sees that we are on the West edge of Hokar.

Arienh searches the priest and finds some money and the other half of one of our sending stone sets. We now have 3 whole sets (1 with Mornie and Sorrel, 2 with Airell and Arienh’s BoH, 3 needs to be passed out, the incomplete set is in Arienh’s BoH).

Outside a group is gathering and pointing at the building we are in. Apparently we have made a ruckus and people have noticed.

Meanwhile, Drawmij is sitting casually at the table writing a letter: “Dear Armis (aka polar of Pool), You have a Brotherhood infestation. We uncovered them for you and even left one alive for you to interrogate. You’re welcome. Also, this has nothing to do with Wynn Jas.” who’s that?

Or something along those lines. Drawmij says to not make it look like we are trying to sack the place so Arienh puts the money back in the priest’s pocket. Airell has selective hearing and thus puts back nothing. Who’s to say I didn’t already have these poisons? He and Drawmij sit and drink coffee.

The Watchers amateurs show up and start asking questions. Drawmij has Kellen show the medallion and is insistent that we will only talk to the Polar of Pool. We sit for an hour while the Watchers toss the place and try to get us to talk.

Side note: the brotherhood call themselves the Shar, meaning Pure in ancient Celoise.HA!

Finally 3 custodians show up and ignore the watchers, just talking to us. Their leader, an elf male, introduces himself as Dementrist Tagmark of the 4th dragoon something something (DM help please). He has someone check Kellen’s medallion (number 1676). Kellen tells him we found the brotherhood hide out and need to talk to the Polar of Pool asap. Drawmij explains about the Kraken and how one of the captains Skerrin hired should be returning to Hokar any time and can corroborate the story. Or the Polar can scry on Monmurg and see what’s happening there.

One of the Watchers steals the priest’s pouch of money. Airell mage hands it back into the priest’s robes. He didn’t deserve it anyways, shame we couldn’t get it back before they took the bodies

We sit for 3 hours while the unconscious brotherhood guy is taken out and the Watchers and told to clear out so the Custodians can take over. To fill the time, a few conversations happen.

MK and Mornie make food and Mornie chats up one of the guards, trading war stories. She doesn’t get much useful info, the guy is still a rotten slaver no matter how nice he seems, and the people around us are starting to realize who we are.

Arienh asks Drawmij about Anthala Quen. He tells her where he lives, last he heard anyway. Drawmij isn’t a fan of Anthala because he tried to destroy Drawmij’s ocean home in the interest of destroying anything that was against the old faith. Apparently the brotherhood call Anthala the Mors Aurea (golden death in ancient celoise) because he basically has been waging a one man war against the brotherhood in the Tilvanot peninsula. Last Drawmij heard he was living in the Tilvanot straight through which passes all the trade on that side of the continent. Anthala has a turtle thing that is super strong, bit 12 feet off the top of Drawmij’s citadel, and breathes steam from his mouth.

Through all this Drawmij is strangely calm. And super bored. He clearly feels very in control of what is happening now (unlike the panic inducing Kraken fight). Fighting the brotherhood is a top priority for the Sea Princes so we hope for some help.

Airell reads more of the letters in the apothecary. People seem to be buying a lot of weapons. interesting

3 half dragons (guardians of immortality *I think, can’t read my own handwriting*) escort us out across the city to meet the Polar of Pool. The Polar is scrying through one of them when they arrive. Drawmij acts as tour guide. He says Armage now owes us because we uncovered the illegal teleportation circle in his city. He hates owing people and will pay it back asap. Good policy

Airell looks for thieves’ cant and doesn’t see much but may recognise more later. There are a lot of grandiose monuments littering the city.

We arrive at the Obsidian tower and follow a ribbon of blue inlaid into the ground. Inside, we reach the main chamber and find that the floor is a miniature of the Hokar region with the blue becoming the rivers. Pillars of light illuminate portions of the room. Note to self: entire map is in gemstones, may want to revisit

A man with a collar and tattooed spells on him stands in the middle of the room and dozens of half dragons line the walls. To the side we see Anvari (one of Nenredhed’s spies) is being held as a prisoner.

The priest in the center of the room is chanting about the greatness of the Polar Pool. Drawmij is not impressed. Out from the shadows steps a creature who looks like a mix between a worm and a person. Worse than it sounds, trust me It is the Polar of Pool. He welcomes Drawmij.

Session 50 - 12/19’2021
Kellen immediately begins asking silly questions, causing Drawmij to cringe.  She plows on ahead, eventually testing the Ploor’s patience.  However, when he recognizes Drawmij’s discomfort, he begins to enjoy himself and asks Kellen the whole story of the Kraken, rather than let Drawmij tell the story.

The Grimoire of the Deep had previously been held by the Ploor and it was stolen out of his library.  He thought it was Drawmij who stole it, maybe using Kellen, but now we’re telling him it was the Brotherhood.  He clearly does not like Drawmij.  Turns out Kellen didn’t read the whole Grimoire and skipped the intro, surprise surprise which is why she can’t control the Kraken.  The Ploor is incredulous that someone would go through the trouble of taking and reading the book, but not actually using it for it’s true purpose. Its a weird expression from a worm thing, but I have to agree with the sentiment  Kellen just wanted to learn magic, though she’s starting to realize that maybe the execution of her dream was lacking.  To lighten up the mood, Kellen does the most Kellen thing and casts rainbow sharks.  The room immediately lights up with glowing Seloisian glyphs and extinguish the sharks.  All of the half dragons surrounding us are immediately on guard and ready to kill us. not the most useful thing that gnome has done with her magic

Airell hands over the letters found in the Brotherhood safehouse as a show of good faith to give them more info on their other locations. just goes to show you should always steal anything if someone’s trying to hide it Drawmij also tells the Ploor about Jamu and to check our story with him.

The Ploor is done with story time and summons a plume of smoke over the group.  MK and Arienh suddenly are compelled to only tell the truth, while the rest of IT feel a magical tug that they ignore. I am really getting sick of this spell The Ploor first asks MK if she knows what’s inside of her and even though she says she’s aware of the demon,still not sure I believe that one he implies that she really doesn’t know everything that is going on with it.  He then turns to Arienh and asks her what her deepest, darkest desires are, and what she wants from the Ploor in coming here with us. Probably tree stuff He then asks Mornie why she killed one of the leaders in the Styes.  She fights off his spell again, but he assures her that it’s ok for her to tell the truth, even though she’s not forced to.  She tells him she was ordered to do it by Nenredhed, but the Ploor semi-blames Drawmij as being privy to the orders she was given.  Drawmij doesn’t deny this.  He then asks Kellen what she wants to do with the Grimoire of the Deep.  Kellen misunderstands misunderstands? Sometimes I wonder if it’s all a ploy to drop people’s guard and says she doesn’t have the book.  The Ploor looks at her askance and then turns to MK and asks the same question.  MK tries to obfuscate as to who exactly is holding the book, but does admit that one of us has it.  Airell steps in to offer to sell or trade it back to the Ploor if he still wants it. For the right price of course Drawmij says no, shutting down the conversation. it’s like he hates treasure, we’re certainly not going to use the book and if the Ploor had it before, he already had the chance to use it himself and didn’t When Drawmij isn’t looking, Airell catches the Ploors eye and nonverbally insinuates that the offer still stands.  Finally, the Ploor asks Airell why he killed Rashlen.  He replies that it’s because Rashlen’s soldiers attacked him first. No need to mention where we were when they attacked me

The Ploor is surprised at our candor and tell us that he had thought it was all a part of Drawmij’s crusade against the Hold of the Sea Prince - taking the Falling Star, destroying that crazy dwarf’s navy, killing three councilors in the Styes, etc.  He dismisses us to the veranda in order to do more investigations into what we’ve told him.  On the way out Kellen asks more silly questions.

When we make it out onto the veranda, Drawmij says that he thought it could’ve gone better, but at least it wasn’t as bad as it could’ve been.  Especially since we didn’t follow his plan of letting him do all the talking. arrogant that one The group gets to talking and it’s determined that the glyphs in the walls are 9th level counterspells.  Drawmij warns of other traps that are in the castle, specifically not to go up the staircase.  Mornie asks how he would know and who was with him the last time he was here.  He says that we wouldn’t know his companions, although one last name is familiar to us, and says they tried to send up an earth elemental to kill the Ploor and it didn’t even make it halfway up the stairs.  They did eventually make it to the Ploor and killed him, but apparently he’s got copies too, just like Drawmij. You’d think that’d cross his mind before leading a full scale attack

Exposition about the Suell empire…Hokar set up to raid the Sea of Dust for artifacts.  After the Ploor was turned into a worm man, he stopped going on raids and started sending parties out instead.  One such party included Drawmij over a hundred years ago.  Eventually Drawmij says he tried to lead a rebellion because the Ploor is a bad man. Pot meet kettle

Meredith gets the baby and screaming immediately ensues.

Food is provided, which MK checks for poison, even though Drawmij says the Ploor respects the law of hospitality. Looks and vanity can be deceiving, MK can be surprisingly practical at times…I approve Mornie asks Airell how he got the Grimoire back.  The story didn’t take long.

Drawmij checks on the Kraken in his crystal ball, but can only tell it’s moving, not how far away it is.  Kellen offers to try and connect with its mind like before to get more info even though she’s broken her pact.  She successfully opens her mind to it and is “pulled” to the Kraken, seeing it swimming quickly and determines it’s about 90-100 miles from Port Toli.  At that point it realizes she’s in its mind and shunts her out.

Arienh asks Airell how the Ploor knew that Olidammara was his patron goddess, but he doesn’t know the answer to that.  Drawmij informs the group that one of the Ploor’s favorite tactics is to use the spell Legend Lore to find out information about people in order to be prepared before he meets with them. That’s a bit invasive  As we’re talking, a Gnome and Oridian human arrive on the balcony, wearing pendants of Boccob the Uncaring, god of knowledge and magic.

After some time, tattoo man escorts us back into the room.  The Ploor is now standing in the middle of the room in the middle of an almost finished teleportation circle.  Kellen tells the Ploor how close the Kraken is to Port Torvi.  “Well then there’s no time to waste then” he says and Airell enters the circle.  There’s no such thing as magic gunpowder, the Ploor patronizingly explains to Drawmij, but there’s a way to make the cannons themselves magical.  He asks the rest to enter the circle.  As the tattoo man is finishing the sigils, the Ploor tells Kellen that since we gave him information about the Brotherhood safe houses, that he will repay that by telling us that if we want to destroy the Grimoire, we need to search for the Fate of the Tammeraut.  It’s captain is purported to be the author of the Grimoire.  Tattoo man finishes his work and our group, tattoo man, the Ploor, the Boccob priests, and 2 dozen half dragons are teleported out of the room.

We all appear amidst a hive of activity on a dais in the main hall of a large room.  Functionaries are rushing madly about on different errands.  As the sigils fade, both Airell and Kellen observe them closely and try to memorize them.  We head out from what turns out to be the Hokar embassy building in Port Toli and head into the castle complex known as the Bastion.  Kellen tries to jot down the sigils along the way. At least I think she was, it was pretty messy with some obvious mistakes…maybe she was just doodling We head into what looks like a large town hall where there’s a woman dressed in gold at the center, receiving and sending out soldiers and bureaucrats alike.  Mornie recognizes her as Glia Blackswan, the princess of Port Toli and a priestess of Fharlanghn. Quite stunning armor, wonder how much it would fetch in Greyhawk? There are also a group of obviously not soldiers, one that looks like a poisoner pirate and another with an enormous tattoo of the symbol of Cord.

Glia and Drawmij argue while we look around.  Drawmij returns and tells us the plan.  Basically, they don’t trust us Drawmij’s sunny personality isn’t winning us any friends it seems so Kellen is going to be bait again.  MK remembers the last fight with the Kraken and is terrified.  They want us to sit on a ship outside of the harbor until the Kraken comes and then draw it back into the harbor into enfilading fire from the cannons.  We hang out for the day as preparations continue.  Airell gets a new owl familiar to replace the one that got squashed yesterday.  He also adds the teleportation circle sigil for the Hokar embassy in Port Toli to his list of sigils.  Drawmij keeps tabs on the Kraken using his crystal ball and starts to write something that he keeps hidden from us.  Mornie tries to wheedle some magic bullets out of Glia or the Ploor. I suppose that’s one way to get something from people Sorrell gets in contact with Mornie and tells her that they’re fixing the Falling Star and are going to try sailing her home tomorrow and asks if the Kraken is still alive.  Mornie fills her in on the plan to trap the Kraken.

After the sun sets, we’re loaded up on the ship the Stern Lady to wait for the Kraken.  Mornie is handed 20 +2 magic bullets. Definitely should try this asking thing more often, can always steal it if they say no Arienh, Mornie and MK sail the boat out of the harbor while Airell and Kellen keep a watch out using their familiars.  Mornie gets distracted trying to direct MK in the art of sailing and struggles with the lines.  As we sail out, we realize that Port Toli is pretty plain compared to Hokar.  It’s obviously a town that only recently has gained prominence, after the sack of Monmurg left it as the only true harbor in the Hold of the Sea Princes and thus the only port that can export large quantities of gunpowder.

We split watches to keep an eye out for the Kraken.  Kellen reenters the Kraken’s mind to find it asleep, with only two of its minds active.  One of those minds is obsessing over all of its traumas and how it will get revenge on all that have hurt it. so basically it’s a teenager…great It realizes Kellen is present and begins to threaten her and all of her family and friends.  Kellen goes crazy and kamikaze’s Flicker at Arienh, who is on first watch.  Arienh investigates and finds Kellen in full rigor and tries unsuccessfully again to wake her.  MK is called, who steps in and slaps Kellen awake.  The kraken does not appear on the first watch.

Drawmij joins Mornie on the second watch and mentions that he’s in the strange position of not knowing if he will survive the encounter.  Must be nice having spare bodies lying around In the even that he dies, he asks her to destroy the Grimoire and the copies the Brotherhood have made.  He also asks that she find the killer of the Circle of Eight.  They were a group of the most powerful magic users who all died, except for Bigby, in a trap set for them in Greyhawk.  Rary and Drawmij both were able to return as clones, but don’t know the specifics of how they were killed.  Drawmij then hands Mornie a parchment with a list of locations, cover IDs, recognition codes and the likes for a couple dozen of spies in his network that have special info on either the Brotherhood or on the betrayal of the Circle of Eight to help her with these missions.  He warns her to use them carefully as they will inevitably report back to Nenredhed and she’ll figure out that Mornie is trying to do something and may try to stop her. it’s women like Nenredhed that make me think I might be better off not knowing my mother Mornie gives the parchment to Arienh to put in the bag of holding and passes along what Drawmij told her so that if she also dies, these missions might still be accomplished.

Nothing of note happens on the third watch as Airell observes.

The sun rises and eventually Drawmij sees a storm growing to the north heading toward land.  At the same time, Airell spots a tell-tale wake in the water, cutting across the waves, heading straight for the Stern Lady.  He calls out that the Kraken is approaching and Mornie, Arienh, and MK all rush to get the ship under way and back into harbor.  MK bulks up like a bull and heaves up the anchor like a madwoman note to self: don’t cross her face to face, other methods preferable if need be while Arienh whips the wheel around and Mornie dances across the rigging, letting out the sails in record time.  Airell is loving the thrill of the chase and catches some seawater off the side of the ship during its steep turn.  Meanwhile Kellen is like a limpet on the mast freaking out, with Flicker wrapped around her neck and head.

As we head back into the harbor, Mornie tries to warn some of the other ships leaving seriously, they trust Drawmij that little that they still let ships go to and fro when a kraken might be coming?!? At least this time Mornie warned us before using that blasted sword Arienh asks if anyone else wants one the sending stones from the third set we acquired.  Everyone is ambivalent and so she throws it at Kellen because she says she’s the most likely one to do something crazy. No kidding, at least I have one now in case they ditch me. Again. We make it back to the harbor lickety split and Airell notices that the watchers on the Bastion are directing the rest of the defenders once they see us enter the harbor.

Everyone hurries up and waits for the kraken.

The Ploor flies up from the castle on his throne, much to the chagrin of Drawmij.  As the kraken enters the harbor, Arienh creates a trench in the water down to the sea floor, halting the Kraken and allowing the cannons on the shore to unload on it, dealing massive damage. Quite impressive really  The kraken looks at the trench it is and then seems to follow a direct line from it to Arienh before it unleashes a magical bomb that shatters all magical effects except in a small area on the Stern Lady where Drawmij is protecting himself and the IT crew.

Kellen is frightened by this show of force.  Kellen is inspires Mornie and gets credit for it.

Session 51 - December 21, 2021
The kraken unleashes the magical bomb and the IT Crew sees the spell “Leomund’s Tiny Hut” dissipate. Drawmij mutters irritably, “That’s how he got through my citadel’s defenses!” Duh.

The water that was displaced from Arienh’s spell quickly refills the area around the kraken. It’s eyes blaze with hatred as it dives in and heads towards us. Kellen gives a little eep and quickly takes a big whiff of her pickled octopus. She shudders, squares her shoulders, and narrows her eyes at the kraken. “Let’s do this.”

The shadowy shape of the kraken takes a quick turn and heads instead towards the Kingfisher. “It’s going after the magical cannons!” MK yells. Kellen desperately aims at the kraken with her eldritch blasts, but they miss and the kraken ignores her. The mages and the Plar of Hool try to attack the kraken to get it away from the Kingfisher, but everything misses.

In the midst of the magical attacks, the Plar pointed his finger at the IT Crew and a small yellow light arced towards their boat. Arienh yells, “It’s a delayed fireball! What is he doing?” It stops right above the deck that’s housing barrels of gunpowder!!! Drawmij quickly casts Wall of Force around it while Kellen yells at everyone, “Get off the boat! Now!” No need to hear that command twice; everyone moves. That Plar is a dick. He needs to be the Plar of Drool!

The kraken attacks the Kingfisher and starts putting some serious damage on its hull. Airell sends his owl into the water to head butt the kraken, which distracts it long enough for Mornie to run up and perfectly aim her wheellock pistol at it and put a shot in through its body.

Airell and the seneschal (on the floating platform of “Hool”) both try to hit the kraken while it’s distracted, but barely damage it.

Arienh, quite irritated with how the kraken dispelled her spell the last time, casts Control Water again on the kraken. The kraken, still under the ship, falls to the sea floor with the Kingfisher pinning it down. Kellen seizes her chance and casts Hunger of Hadar on the edge of the ship, right where the kraken cannot avoid it. The Plar casts Disintegrate and the kraken howls in pain as one of its tentacles withers and disappears. Airell unleashes a precise shot into the kraken, where it then roars in pain. The kraken moves the Kingfisher aside and attacks Mornie. She’s unable to move away in time. Airell sees what is happening and summons a spiritual weapon to attack the kraken.

Glaring at the Plar of Hool who hurt it so much, the kraken lets loose another magical bomb and takes away the magic from the floating golden throne. As the throne starts to plummet, the Plar teleports away, leaving the seneschal to fall to his death on the seafloor. Definitely a dick!

A flash of light comes from the IT Crew’s ship - that fireball exploded! Drawmij’s Wall of Force saved the boat!

Kellen pushes her hat back and little and conjures up her Eldritch blasts again. Her aim is perfect and the force of the blasts move the kraken back far enough to release Mornie. The kraken is stuck inside the cloud of Hunger of Hadar and it screeches in anger and pain.

Mornie brushes off the squid juice and pulls out her wheellock pistol and rifled pistol. She steadies herself and hits the kraken twice with her magic bullets. While moving quickly out of sight, she sees lightning hit where Kellen, Arienh, and Drawmij are standing. The water around her starts moving back towards the kraken filling in the area. Oh no! Arienh lost control of the spell! Damn that kraken to the seven hells!

The Kingfisher starts moving towards the surface and the kraken is up at the surface. It swings its head towards Mornie as the cannons attack it again. A tentacle bursts through the water next to Mornie and grabs her. However, she is ready this time and uses the squid juice to her advantage as she slips free.

Drawmij gestures while muttering an incantation, then releases a black cloud of the Disintegrate spell, which goes poof against the tough hide of the kraken. Drawmij screws his face up in frustration.

Airell gestures to his magic sword and it gracefully dodges one of the tentacles and then slices the next one off. Woo hoo! More damage! Stupid Kraken needs to die already!

The kraken, completely enraged and in pain, thrashes towards the IT Crew and grapples Kellen, Airell, and Drawmij. MK sees this, and opens up a can of “whoop-ass” on the kraken and unleashes 6 deadly attacks.

The kraken reacts by squeezing Kellen until she’s completely dead. It drops her body on the island and whacks her body twice more for good measure.

Airell quickly escapes from the kraken’s grasp and runs to a good place to shoot the kraken again.

The kraken whips around and seizes MK. MK, enraged from what it did to Kellen, screams, “Come and get me, you ugly piece of sh*t!” She tries to wiggle out of its grasp as it swallows her whole. Would it be too much to ask if her hair caused it to gag a little with all the product in it?

Mornie whips out a different pistol along with her wheellock and shoots the kraken again.

The kraken starts to squeeze Drawmij.

Whilst getting acid damage, MK attacks from the inside and starts moving south. Does she want it to poop her out?

Drawmij casts Misty Step and then attacks the kraken with Ray of Frost.

MK, overwhelmed with the acid damage, succumbs and dies within the kraken.

The kraken, seizing its opportunity, calls lightning again to hit Drawmij.

Mornie, seeing that the bulge, that is supposed to be MK, has stopped moving, reloads her wheellock pistol one more time, takes aim, whispers, “Not this time, you bastard” and shoots.

All time appears to stop as the bullet goes straight into the kraken’s abdomen. It keels over…dead. Dead by c-section!

Mornie runs over to the kraken and pulls out MK. Airell runs with her, then holds onto his holy symbol and touches MK. She takes a gasping breath, but remains unconscious.

Arienh grabs her skirts and runs over to Kellen. No, you will not die on my watch. No, no, no! Arienh pulls out the diamond dust and casts Revivify for the second time in her life. Please work. Please work. Please work. Kellen’s eye flutters open as she gasps for breath. Kellen then shrieks a little and disappears from sight. Arienh, looking very confused, then starts to feel her hand freeze where she was touching Kellen. Oh my! She cast the Armor of Agythis!

“It’s okay, Kellen! It’s dead! The kraken is dead!”

Kellen shudders a little and then passes out.

As Mornie is lugging MK to the island, Mornie gets a message from Sohral, “Made it home. Barely. Ship is taking on water. Is it dead?” She replies, “Yes, it’s dead by c-section. Glad you’re home. Hope it’s fixable.”

Mornie then warns everyone to plug their ears. She picks up the sword and yells, “The kraken is dead! Get to your boats and help the sailors on the Kingfisher!” Then, she kneels and puts a healing potion into MK. MK groans and gradually moves to sit up. Mornie runs over to help save the sailors with Drawmij looking on in disapproval. “She really cannot help herself.”
Airell and Arienh go to the kraken and attempt to get the ink sack. They take a bit of damage from the poison as the sack gets nicked in the process. He gets some of the ink, but not all. How gross.

MK yells from the island, “Wait! I want a trophy too!” She hunkers over and yanks off a tooth. “There. Serves you right for swallowing me.” You go, girl!

Drawmij, ignoring everyone, has been drawing another teleportation circle on the island, which the IT Crew now fondly calls the Poop Island. Once finished, he yells crabbily, “Are you now all done? It’s time to go.” Seriously, he needs to take a chill pill. We just killed a kraken! The whole crew jogs back and teleports us to the Sea Cow. Airell tries to memorize the sigils, to no avail. Drawmij smirks at him. “Tsk tsk. You should know better.”

Kellen finally wakes up in the Sea Cow.

While Airell is exploring the Sea Cow (because he never made it there the first time), Mornie asks for the letter back from Arienh.

********
The IT Crew rests on the Sea Cow as the trip back to Saltmarsh takes three days (23-25). Drawmij spends some of this time going over the information to Mornie that was in the letter.They arrive midday on the 26th  - which is seven days after killing Skerrin. As they enter the harbor, they can see that Saltmarsh is in the midst of repairs from the last battle. The Falling Star is in very bad shape.

Mornie figures it would be a good idea to stand on the Sea Cow and use the sword to let everyone know who they are. Better to not scare the Saltmarshians again…within a week! She picks up the sword and yells, “The kraken is dead! We’re back!” She hears a faint cheer and then a, “Welcome home!” from the shore.

When they dock, the IT Crew is greeted by a big group. Kellen’s family rushes up to crush her in hugs. Arienh is greeted by Vern Stumbleduck where he provides her with 100 gp worth of diamonds. “That's all I could find. There’s been a definite lack of diamonds recently.” Arienh thanks him and pays the amount. After greeting everyone, and telling shortened versions of the kraken battle, the IT Crew heads up the hill to their house. Amanda and her family have done wonders with the house. It’s fully stocked and cleaned.

Drawmij stays little while before heading off in the Sea Cow. Kellen gives him back his spellbook, to his great relief. Mornie then tells him that she has a better way of keeping in touch with him, and then hands him one of the sending stones. “Ah yes, that’s much better than the dreaming spell! Thank you!” He then leaves.

Inspiration goes to: Mornie

Couple of questions:
What is the name of the demon inside MK?
How are we going to search out who killed the Circle of Eight?
When do we get to help Airell with his bow and Kellen with her new patron

Session 52 - January 8

Meanwhile in Saltmarsh:

Gellen took over Eda’s position and not happy with it.
Kellenville is almost completely rebuilt within a month. Nolan is busy, but comes by sometimes to bring Kellen little gizmos. And that one time when he shyly asks her to pay her guild dues.

Aftern neediest Oliander sets sail. He’s not around when we do ritual and ruin his lawn. He liked the gazebo.
Saltmarsh fleet is still missing the FS, but Bastion has been reparied.
Kellen’s parents left after a month. They stayed through month of Sunseb. Kellen’s mom cleaned all of the house and was “supervising” Amanda.

Arienh was working to convert her house into a brewery. There’s a knock on her door and Vohem is there. He says he had an idea: Find a way to pay for the trip. He proposes to trade stuff: gunpowder and spices. He can talk to Gellen about getting some from him, but he doesn’t have money for it. He asks for 3000 gp. He says we can sell it for 7k. Arienh makes the decision for the group and agrees.
She takes money out of bag of holding. 5 barrels of gunpowder and 10 barrels of spices.

Kellen makes the fan system for the house.
Kellen manically builds something for 2 weeks. She dismantles everything vaguely mechanical and has crazy blueprints on the walls. It constantly smells of ozone.

Back to our current problems:

There’s a Rakshasa to fight:
MK is in her room. Everyone else rolls initiative.
Mornie ruins the mask with her shot, but it seems to hurt Rakshasa a lot. Rakshasa disappears and gently caresses Airell’s cheek.
He can move 6 squares.
We can’t hit him with anything.

He completely dissapears. Arienh recognizes that he used Plane Shift. We try to figure out what to do. He seemed to recognize Mornie and MK.
Mornie contacts Drawmij to ask for advice. He says that only very powerful magic of only the strongest mages. What did you guys do?

Airell needs to defeat it to complete the ritual.
As a precaution now Airell will cast alarm on the house, Fliker will watch him sleep.

Kellen Dreams to Kora that had a book on Rakshasa. She says that Kellen can come over and work for Academy of Sea mages. She likes sailing. What she says about Rakshasa: the can cast spells, their claws carry a wasting curse, only the most powerful magic can affect them, only the heroes of purest heart could hurt it. They are fearless beyond death, when they die they are reborn in the nine hells. She recommends coming in Gradsul for proper research. Greyhawk and Hokar also have good libraries.

Airell got cursed, couldn’t rest. Arienh went to Hybrorin to ask him to cast Remove Curse. Cleric grumbled, but did it.
Arienh keeps trying to Scry on powerful mages. At last she succeeds and sees Bigby walking on a shore by a triangular island that’s part of the city. He goes to the lighthouse, mutters a word in ancient Selouise to open it. Goes up the stairs. You see landings and doors that were not there from the outside. It is city of Scant in the kingdom of Onwal. Kellen and Mornie passed it when they went to Celine.

Time for Greyhawk adventure!
Airell got a head start. He asks everyone to call him Montana Smith while there. He’s an explorer archeologist apparently. Typical.
We mist walk there, and turn into people outside the city walls. As we come in, we notice flyers with a familiar face… That Montana Smith was a naughty boy it seems. Airell claims he doesn’t do anything and vanishes from sight.


What we know about Greyhawk and Iuz from the vampire Arienh talked to:

Far to the north of here is a realm called Iuz, ruled by a demigod of the same name.  Iuz was the offspring of a demon prince of the Abyss and a powerful wizard.  Six hundred years ago, Iuz made war on the whole of Flanaess:  the Great Kingdom of Aerdy, the Kingdom of Keoland, the Elves of Celene, the Dwarves of the Yatil Mountains and Lortmil Mountains, even the land of Ket in the Baklunish West.

“Iuz was defeated, and so great a victory was it that the Overking of Aerdy marked it with establishing a new calendar that you all follow today.  With Common Year 1 being the first year since the end of the war.

“Contrary to those stories, the defeat of Iuz was not because of the Great Alliance of kingdoms.  He was brought down by the Seven Betrayers, a cadre of his own generals, advisors, and mages.  Nor was he killed, only wounded and weakened.  Iuz swore a God’s Oath to hunt down the Seven Betrayers, and their families, and their descendants.

“They fled far south and west, but Iuz was relentless.  Today only two bloodlines remain, spread across the continent.  Mine and the other one hiding here.

“My father was one of the Betrayers.  I remained a loyal servant, and delivered him to Iuz in chains.  My reward?  Iuz let me choose the death we would both have.

“After my escape, I tried to cheat Iuz’s oath in undeath.  My father’s bloodline ended, I hoped the mystical oath would be fulfilled.  It partially worked.

“What was more successful was Iuz’s imprisonment, a century later.  Zagyg Yragerne trapped him in the Godtrap below Castle Greyhawk.  For his efforts, the gods elevated Zagyg to demigod.

 “Three wonderful centuries, where I did not need to look over my shoulder.  It was a wonderful time.  Then, seventy years ago, some fool broke the Godtrap and let him out.

“Fifty three years, seven months, and twelve days ago I had my coffin smuggled to this scenic little town.  It had the advantage of being remote, and had a scion of one of the two remaining bloodlines of Betrayers.  The perfect cover for Iuz’s hunters.


Remember! Stop at ports and Vohem will sell stuff.


Session 53 - January 16, 2022

We enter through the Duke’s gate. It is really cold. We have seen the proclamations (wanted for the murder, torture of seven persons: the “garden quarter strangler”) looking for Airell so he dives down and disguises self to a human that is sort of similar to Airell. We are approached by two guards who apologize for the mix up. Airell asks what’s going on in the city. They say we only need to be concerned if we are rich. The strangler has been targeting people of good standing. The first murder was two weeks ago, a guy named ***, owner of the High Tower. The murders are regular and the next one is expected tomorrow. Other murders were a dancer, squire nephew of a visiting emir from Ket who was a gambler at the high tower, and the latest was a merchant Orbuth Ashgrove. The strangler hangs them from the rafter then cuts out organs. Pattern was every two days and then every three days. Airell recognizes the first one and maybe the nephew of the emir (whom he cheated money from while gambling), and Ashgrove.
The guard asks where we are from as we are clearly mercenaries. Airell says we hiked in from Erybend. We had heard about a treasure there but we seemed to have bad info so we are coming to do research in the Clerk’s district.
The guard tells us before we go to the Clerk’s district we should head for Eridox Expedition provisions in the artist quarter. Tell them Baeron Kerr sent you.
We sit in the cold for another hour waiting to get in the gate. Airell recasts his disguise and Kellen disguises herself as a preteen human. Airell tells us we can call him Airell now.
Once we are through the gate, we head for the Black Dragon Inn. It is so crowded. How do this many people exist in one city?
A guy runs into MK and she grapples him. The guy was carrying a figurine that is now broken. He says “Lord Henway is going to fire me, I won’t have money for my son’s guild fees” and people nearby are starting to yell at MK for being a foreigner being rude, Mornie tries to sooth things over and lots of arguing ensues. Lord Henway is the owner of a menagierie. Things are ramping up when Kellen casts suggestion on the main aggressor. She is not subtle about it so people see and the spell fails.
Airell tries to cast mending but the guy won’t let him. He says he’d rather lose his job than be dead.
The aggressor guy punches Kellen, Mornie tried to block it (fails), and MK grapples the aggressor.
Kellen and Airell go invisible, Arienh asks the guy with the broken figuring how we can make it right (hoping they will just go away)? He says it’s worth 5 gold. Arienh pays him and this diffuses the angry guys. MK gets off one of them with some final words. The two aggressor guys go off together and Mornie follows him for a minute just to make sure nothing else happens with him.
Airell sneaks off to recast his disguise self without anyone noticing him become visible again.
MK and Arienh are left alone with the guards that have now approached. Arienh tries to explain that there was a misunderstanding and she backs away nonconfrontationally. MK starts a fight.
MK kills one of the 4 guards, Arienh potions him back to life, Kellen tried to banish MK but it didn’t work.  MK runs away, Kellen casts invisibility on herself, MK, and Arienh. Arienh gets away. The guards set off their alarm whistles and the crowd moves away. Mornie and Airell are returning at this point and realize something bad has happened so they hang back and watch.
Mornie uses the earring to call Arienh , Kellen, and Airell so we can gather at the alley where Mornie is. The beggars will hear us talking so Airell suggests we walk and talk to the Inn we were headed for originally.
Meanwhile MK is trying to get out of the city. She tries to get on the roofs to traverse more unseen and a little faster. Eventually her invisibility drops. When she gets close to the gates she sees the guards on high alert. She spends some time observing.
The rest of us head for the inn. When invisibility is close to dropping Kellen disguises self as a dwarf. Mornie thinks they don’t have a good description of the rest of us so Arienh shouldn’t be made, especially with the rest of the group looking different.
The black dragon inn is a huge building, with a half orc proprietor named Miklos Dare. We get a table in the main room and order ales and food. Airell sends out his owl to search for MK while we eat. Not successful. We get two rooms for the night.
MK is watching the guards on the gate. Their patrols are regular and frequent.
Airell dyes Mornie’s hair a natural looking black (DC 22 to spot that it’s fake). Kellen helps with guidance and gives us an inspiring speech so we get temporary hit points.
Arienh scrys on MK and sees where she is. Kellen gives Arienh the portable hole and Arienh wildshapes as a hawk to fly to MK. After some communication issues between bird and human MK gets in the hole to see what Arienh brought. As soon as she is in the hole Arienh-bird starts rolling it up and carries her back to the room at the inn.
We have a talk about what MK wants and whether or not she will stay. She says she will stay with us but then she wants to find her family. Airell dyes her hair into a red mohawk (DC 18 to spot).
MK’s new name is Red Sonya.
We rest for the night. Mornie takes first watch. Airell takes second. Arienh takes third. The city watch are clearly still looking for MK, but don’t seem to know she is here.
Goals for Greyhawk:
·       Research Rakshasa
·       Clear “Montana’s” name
·       Research fate of ship
·       Find a tree in the city
·       Research leveling up Mornie’s sword
·       Research Castle Greyhawk
·       Research MK’s spice bag
·       Get more diamonds
Airell decides to go submit to the zone of truth with the priests of St Cuthbert. He gives Mornie his bag of holding full of his valuable stuff. Arienh, MK, and Kellen leave for a different tavern – the Rock and Oliphant – so that Airell can truthfully say he doesn’t know where MK is. We get her new clothes and brush down the mohawk into cornrows.
Mornie goes to research the Rakshasa’s killing pattern. Names, locations, timeline. See below for details. All the murders follow the same pattern except a different organ was taken each time. They were all killed where they lived. Some of the murders are places and people connected to Airell, but not all of them seem to be.
The watch is looking for MK mostly in the Clerksburg area. It seems to be a pretty local search and if we went to a different area of the city there would be less heat. Unless she does something stupid.
Airell goes to the temple of St Cuthbert where they are in the process of having their Godsday service. He looks for a priest who could be approached to talk to.  Only acolytes available right now. He looks around the area. It’s a very busy area. After a few hours (around 4 in the afternoon) things start to clear out and most of the people start to leave the temple. Airell goes in and asks to speak to someone who can make sure he is telling the truth. The priest is not getting it so Airell drops his disguise and says he needs to prove that he is not the Garden Quarter Strangler and is being framed. The priest leaves Airell with some bouncers to make sure he doesn’t leave while the priest runs off to get someone. After a while a higher up priest comes out, sends for the watch, and Airell is arrested and taken to jail for a few hours. It’s now after sundown and he is finally brought to the court of justice. There are half a dozen night watchmen, a magistrate, and two members of the ruling council (one is an active older guy – Deiter Fenche), the bishop of St Cuthbert (short wiry woman – Kaan-Ipzirel). The bishop compels him magically to tell the truth. This is more powerful than the zone of truth. She asks if he is the Killer. He replies “No”. She looks at the magistrate and says “He is lying”. Airell is immediately tackled and the bishop gives him a look and says “be seeing you”. It’s the Rakshasa!!
Airell yells “Where is the real bishop?”
Meanwhile, once Kellen and Arienh get MK situated they research the Rakshasa at the great library at Greyhawk. Lots of reference to creatures of pure heart can harm it. Immune to all magic except 6th or 7th level and higher. Immune to the effect of the spell or the spell itself – if you summon something actively created and maintained by the spell it has no effect. But if that spell moves the real world it can effect the Rakshasa. It’s immune to non magical piercing, bludgeoning, slashing. Fire elemental will work.
