Session 117 11/16/2024 - LA
M’s notes - Kellen, Arienh and Airell try to get something useful out of them. 2 sets of handwriting - one very precise chicken scratch and on top of that annotations in X’s flowing handwriting. After some time M’s notes stop and it’s just X’s.
It details the construction of the standing stones. Final activation “blood of creation” requires blood of someone very powerful. Shard of Iuz, ancient dragon. Fist of the furnace meets the criteria.
The bottom 8-10 inches of incantation and runes are missing.
M was also planning to make something similar to the incantation. That bottom layer that M created is very different from what was on the Saltmarsh standing stones. Unclear if it’s a mistake or he’s trying to do something different.

2 weeks after Brewfest. 3 months since we returned from Castle Greyhawk.
Everyone is just worn out.
Kellen devolved into obsession of construction again. She built some contraption around the standing stones.
Arienh gives Airell updates via sending stone.

MK is in Greyhawk. She seems listless. She disappears from the house a lot. MK is trying to remember what happened. Many of the imprints are there, but they are empty. She’s trying to document some of the adventures into a song. She’s renting a studio and getting a coach to help her write this song. The song starts out with mild adventures, goes into crescendo part where she gets eaten by the kraken. She performs at local venues and refines based on audience response.  It ends on the note of perseverance and leaves people inspired.

Arienh realizes that home is not home anymore. People here worry about fish and weather and she worries about the fate of the world and exploding obelisks. There’s realization that there’s next 5-6 centuries more of this because she got so powerful as a Druid.
She spends more and more time on her own or in the sea grove. Brewing potions, doing her things.

Mornie is gone. Arienh find a note in her bag that says “if you need me, I’ll be in the place where no one normally looks. I’ll be in Greyhawk, just call.”

Airell is having the time of his life. Everything is awesome.

Earthday Patchwall 13. Kellen gets a message from the herald that they need them right away. Escort waits at the tree, giants have broken out.

Kellen goes to find Arienh. Arienh collects her stuff. It’s approaching sunset by the time they are ready. Arienh calls Airell who is there. He sends a message to guild of wizardry to let them know.
Kellen tinkers with her teleportation circle setup and they bamph to the place below the Guild of Wizardy at Grayhawk.
There’s half dozen guards and a mage. There’s also a page there to collect them.

Airell with his publicity agent, Hakrar is hanging out. Hakrar is eager to go meet with Kellen and Arienh. They all go to Hakrar’s place.

MK is going to her usual gig at the Pickled Chickenfoot. Airell knows that. He sends a runner to tell MK to come to the house.

We have no idea where Mornie is. But Airell can cast Sending now. He says “Arienh and Kellen back. Giants loose. Come to Hacrar’s immediately. King has requested us as soon as possible.” He hears Mornie speaking with a weird new accent serving beer. She goes to change out of her costume, says good bye, closes out her accounts and leaves.
Arienh says she knows where Mornie is, he didn’t need to do that.

MK is wearing a purple cape, braided strips of ribbon in the hair of purple color. Very flowy. Nice red and black corset over a white shirt with frills. Light blue pants.
She looks very different. Even after she puts on her gear, she looks very different from before.

Mornie comes back looking exactly the same as before. Acting like nothing happened. Only now she’s wearing sparkly smokey eyeshadow.

It’s getting close to midnight now.

Airell is looking at the notes while he waits. He notices that M’s incantations are from the fallen pillars on abbey isle. Very different from god trap.

Inventory:
Mornie has the boat and the bag of holding. Magic potions
MK has potion of speed
Airell has scroll of telepathy and teleport
Mirage Arcane - Arienh
Potion of invulnerability - MK
everyone but Airell - potion of water breathing
healing potions are distributed

Mornie says that we should probably take horses so we can travel faster.
Mornie pulls out a dark cloak that we’ve never seen before and says “let’s go”.
Arienh asks her what she was doing. Airell asks about the accent.
Mornie said she was in the middle of work with her teacher getting some stuff done.
Airell- you work?
MK - what were you working?
Mornie was learning how to take on different personalities and how it can help.
Airell will say - you missed a spot when taking off that personality.
Mornie pulls out a cloth already covered in makeup and wipes her face clean.
Arienh is asking if this is just for learning. Is Mornie okay underneath this?
Mornie says it hasn’t been easy couple months. She’s trying to find out who she really is.
Arienh - there’s a difference between having an answer and being okay.
Mornie says she’s better than she was. Arienh sees that’s a lie. Mornie is still hurting really badly. She covers it up quickly.
Mornie says thank you for the bag of holding, it’s been very helpful.
Mornie hangs back to whisper to Hakrar. She says “would you be willing to do something for me?” He says yes. “There’s a family in the river quarter. I was hoping you could deliver a patch of money to the hospital of Pelor. They know it needs to go to Orth. There are instructions on what to say. Don’t tell anyone it’s from Mornie.”

Hacrar tells Airell to come back bigger maybe. Airell tells him to keep his eyes and ears open while he’s gone. Hacrar gives Airell a sending stone. Airell says it maybe some time before he’s back. They need to defeat the giants. Tell Vivian bye. Hacrar says he will wait Airell to call first.
Arienh reminds Kellen to the pep talk. She does, but it’s kinda sad and empty.
Hacrar is not impressed.

We tree port over. It’s midnight. The sky is a patchwork of clouds. Luna is almost full, Selene is waning to ¾. There’s some light.
We see some jagged towers, it was raining recently. There’s a city in the distance. About a mile away. Airell spots the flying Falling Star resting on a makeshift cradle.
There’s a rustling in the underbrush.
Mornie goes invisible. Airell throws a light coin in the direction. MK gets her axe out. Kellen stares at the distance.
Someone says “ow”. It illuminates a portly man who looks very confused. He has a great cloak with a pin of a fat man on it. He has silver sickle and bunches of flowers and herbs.
Arienh knows him. He’s a Druid that was with Carden before.
He says that he needs to talk to the corpse looking woman.
Mornie reveals herself.
He leads everyone into town. He was the escort. This is town of Hochoch. His name is Gotburt, he’s the Druid of Beory’s Teeth.
He says Tolaith Kashk told him all about Arienh.
City is around 30k people. Second largest town in Geoff. It’s surrounded with farmland and vegetation. There’s an army that looks recently collected that doubles the population. Around 20k soldiers. This is half of the king’s army. The other half is already marching west. There’s a town there that was sacked by the giants. Giants didn’t pause and turned west themselves.
We get to the keep at the center of the city. There’s Carden and Galen Deross. He greets Mornie first and then  bows to the “lord Baron”. Mornie has a smile on her face and says “Carden is great to see you”: Both Arienh and Airell pick up that Mornie is trying to be genuine.
He notices MK for the first time and asks if she’s ok or if she fell ill. She says she’s fine. He says she looks thinner. MK says she just exercised some demons.
He says “thank you Gotburt”. Gotburt doesn’t get the hint, somebody escorts him out.
Mornie asks for the details and he gives all of them.
Mornie reminds MK that we don’t like Feldrin. MK questions if he’s on “our” side. Carden says that he’s on his own side, but the king cannot afford to lose him.
King requested us to march with the rest of the army. And he has a bigger request to Arienh. TIlaeth Cash disappeared 3 days ago. No word from him. This comes at a very poor time. It’s his magic that is keeping FS in the air and king is concerned that without that it will crash.
Arienh asks if they need her to find TIlaeth or just recast the spell? Just a spell.

Galen talks strategy, tells IT crew to stay on the FS and wait for king’s command. Mornie doesn’t like the ambiguity. She wants to know what the plan is. She says we can be more efficient if we know what to expect. Galen calls IT crew amateurs and that war is not about tactics right now, it’s about strategy and logistics. Starve the giants.
The best way for IT crew is to be seen and be out of the way. Boost the morale.


IT crew goes to the Falling star. Everyone is happy. They are all itching to do something.

Arienh shares her vision. Giant impaled on the obelisk. And now it makes sense. That’s what M is planning to do - use Fist of the Furnace to destroy the obelisk. Blue dragon was there too.
The closest obelisk is in Ket, not very close.
Mornie checks in on Kellen. Kellen is not okay.
Kellen tells everyone what she built around standing stones in saltmarsh.
Kellen realizes that Arienh understood it wrong. M was trying to modify the godtrap, and what happened was a trial run. He’s been building another set of sending stones. He was working with an ancient blue dragon (the Mage from the valley). That requires blood of Fist of the Furnace.
We need to stop them from doing this.
We realize that we are now Drawmij.  We are the legends that appear in the darkest hour to join this fight.

We spent couple of the next days on the ship, outpacing the army. Connect with the king’s army.
Mornie asks Kellen to do rainbow sharks and Kellen does an awesome show. She also tell Airell to do some cool acrobatics stuff.
Army loves it.
Keep marching.
Arienh communes with nature to keep track of giants. She gets strong elemental power from multiple sources. Some pricks of demonic nature. Undercurrent of chained oblivion.
Kellen tries to Dream to the Fist, but he’s not sleeping.
Armies are singing the songs. The boarders three. Attack (retreat). The blind father. The golden passage.

FS and Arien fly back and forth and help coordinate.
Arienh is asked not to transform from bird to human too close to the king.

on the 19th waterday the giants turn and start marching for the army of Keoland.
The 2 armies will meet on the Patchwall 20th.

King’s plan:
third of the army is archers - pin the giants until there’s a gap
cavalry rides through the gap and take out third of the army
wherever the FoF will be army will let advance forward. Feldrin’s army will slam into that, so king’s army can flank.
We will be in reserve and tasked with taking out FoF.
While the archers are doing their work the challenge will be holding the discipline in the face of giant boulders. Whatever we can do to help pin down the army - looks at Arienh. The biggest asset IT crew is is helping men keep their nerve.

Many giants don’t walk, they fly. They look like broken statues. Some of the look feral and are on leashes. Fire giants - their skin glows, their flesh looks molten stone. Almost half of the giants were altered by FoF. Creatures of elemental force don’t need to eat. Whatever happened, FoF driven his army past its limits.
There are a lot of priests and clerics among our ranks.

Battle will commence. Skill challenge.
Airell - lies to the troops how easy giants are. That almost works. Fail.
Kellen - inspirational religious speech. Fail.
Arienh - Mirage Arcane. Success.
MK - singing her special song to bolster spirits. Success.
Mornie - shouting persuasive speeches, especially where soldiers get hit. Success.
Kellen - turns into an Adult Gold Dragon. Success.
FoF shows up and dispels Mirage Arcane.
MK tries to swat the rocks away. Full Fail
Feldrin loses his cool and orders charge before it’s time. FoF sees this and the gap in his line and commands something in giant. Fire giants charge forward to close the gap. Cavalry charges against charging giants.
King issues an all out attack. Tells IT crew to follow and take out the FoF when they can.

The first action has to be Feldrin’s charge at disadvantage. The saving throw is also at disadvantage.



Session 116 11/3/2024 - ML
Reaping 17, very early. We all sit and take a breath. Zendros is tied up, the rest of us are pretty beat up. The godtrap is in standby mode, and the place is a mess. Mornie, Airell, and Arienh are still under the gish spell. MK looks like herself, but more waiflike and with a more pleasant demeanor than usual. She looks around at everyone, walks over to Xendros, and attacks her with an axe. Xendros looks at MK in recognition, but MK finishes the job, removing her head and pushing her body over the edge. MK feels different with the shard gone, no longer magically attached to Xendros or this place, needing to rely on the giant belt for strength now. We all see that Xendros’ last moments were of pain, fear, loss.

Mordenkeinen is still out there, the promenade is still covered in demons, but MK and the shard have officially be separated. Mornie asks MK if it’s really gone. She replies that there are a lot of blank spaces in her memory now, things that came from the shard. She killed Xendros because she was working against us.

Mornie brings up that we need to go back to the dragon. Kellen says she can teleport us back through the godtrap, and casts mind blank on MK with one of the godtrap tentacles in the hope that she will keep memories if we walk through the gate. She does not tell the rest of us so we have deniability.

Kellen casts Contact other Planes. She finds herself floating down a river that is also an ocean that is also a river… don’t ask, it’s weird. In this weird steampunk Mark Twain riverboat fever dream there are massive shapes in the water, other paddle boats, elk drinking at the water's edge, Howl’s moving castle walks by, sunlight flashes off distant mountains. Ahead is a spire and floating city. On the deck next to her is Zagyg. He reviews what has just happened and comments, “The end has begun…”

Questions:
Is there a way we can still keep our memories? Yes. You are my Casselian of Castle greyhawk. Nalhalier doesn’t control the gates, she does. Kellen has the key. Whoever she gives the talisman has as much authority as Kellen wants them to as well. So that covers three of us.
What do we need to stop Iuz? What’s the best next step? You’ve hear Arienh’s visions, she has seen what may be and how they have changed already. What we did today changed it more. Capturing the gems we have today (shards?) will cause the other players to make some moves. Gratzz would be at ?? if not for the first betrayer who confounds his vision.
Now Zagyg has a task for Kellen. She promised to defend Zagyg’s castle. Arienh did her part to stop it (she’s made herself bait. Yay.) and now Kellen has to set a trap. The urge to create will possess her and when it does South south and west west you must go until you smell the salt air of your home. Once there you will build a new castle greyhawk. Once the worlds undoing is done, you have set the trap and captured your prey, you will build a new castle in the backwaters. You found the castle beneath the waves once before, your feet will not let you rest until you find it again.
I want to have a conversation with Morty, where do I find him? Morty’s plans are strewn about the floor. This was a trial run. Westward to the feet of the barrier, there a trial awaits. Then more directions and compass points, azure moonlight slow the @#%#$^$#$% down I can’t type that fast…
The shards are trapped in the crystals here. Should we leave them or can we use them? To use them any more than you have would be a vision of misfortune. But if you can find a way, Kellen…
Is MK truly ok now? Fully separated from Iuz? Yes.
Kellen jumps in the water/tries to commit suicide.
Mornie grabs her, diverting her momentum to the side. Kellen gives Arienh her talisman. We start collecting papers. Airell notices that there are two sets of handwriting. Some is Xendros’ and she has also annotated the other handwriting which is probably Mordenkinens.

Suddenly there are a, bunch of armed people waiting for us including Kiran. Late again. He says, “Oh look, Xendros Calmorix. So that’s where she’s been all this time.”

“Rux Calmorix was a demon who was defeated far north of Iuz.” MK turn to Mornie and says, “All this time I thought Rux Calmorix was just a low level accountant type demon.”

Kiran gives up on the story and inspects Xendros’ head. They found her because she paid a huge bribe to get into the city, so big the thieves guild noticed. They followed her to her meeting with Waldorf so they know she was working with him. He wants to take the head, but we say we need it.

Kellen says we are going to use the godtrap to teleport and Kiran is like, how does she not know that I know?

We teleport out to the dragon.  We arrive in a corridor, standing in front of a gemstone that Nalnaliris wanted us to walk through. He is busy cremating all the carcases from the fight earlier.

He says we have proven ourselves and in the future he will consider us honorable allies. We go through the gate. Because of Kellen’s spell and talisman, MK and Arienh and Kellen get to keep their memories.

We step out into a wall of blackness and pouring rain. We are standing at the top of Castle Greyhawk. Airell: Why do I have Xendros’ head?
Airell casts leo’s hut and we rest.
Kellen is awakened by a voice. “King’s herald speaking. Third attempt to contact you. Giants on the march. Your presence required. Please respond.”
Kellen says we need to rest first.

We hike back to greyhawk in the pouring rain. Arienh passes around the dragon vessel filled with whiskey. We fill in Mornie and Airell on the memories they are missing.

To skip the line to get into greyhawk, MK puts Airell on her shoulders and, thanks to the wish spell, we get seen and ushered in right away. We head for Hacrar’s. The city streets and fairly empty thanks to the storm, but they definitely notice us.

While we stay with Hacrar for the next while, several things happen. Xendros’ head is delivered to the wizards. Kellen dreams with Carden. Giants abound. Defend? Pursue? I missed something, sorry. Duke feldran is marching north as is the army, headed to meet the giants, they don’t need us right away, but will soon (a month). Arienh can scry to him for a tree.

Returning the head - Mornie, Airell, Arienh. Airell is all the Beatles in one. Wizard guy says the plan is for us to go and return with an army. Wait, what? Airell says the plan is to go free up an army. They give us stuff. Mornie asks for magic bullets. They don’t really do that, but he gives us a name of a ‘magical technician’ who’s name is Mulligan. They will help with funds. Airell asks about scrolls. Mornie confirms that Xendros’ body will be taken care of in a way that means she can’t be brought back.

Airell leaves thieves cant to tell the leader of the thieves guild that he wants to talk.

Kellen gets the gold statue out of the demiplane. It’s not solid gold but a veneer of gold is still 500 lb of stone with 2400 lb of gold veneer. By the time they melt it down it’s 120,000 gp worth of disks of gold (2400 lbs).

Arienh asks Mornie to use up the revivify so she can contact other planes like Zagyg said. We ask Hacrar who most needs revivified. He is not much help.

We go (invisible and bird) to the temple/hospital of Pelor.  We find a child at the end of life, terrible internal injuries. We spend several hours with Mornie talking to and telling stories to the kids while we wait, but eventually we hear the signs of the child passing. Mornie comes over and places her hand on the child and says “pelor help this child see you and then come back.” and casts revivify. The glow of the spell is visible. And then we leave. It causes a bit of a stir. Morine vanishes and Arienh flies away. In the future there are tales of a ghost of mercy.

Arienh asks Airell to cast contact other planes into the ring. Note: after Arienh uses it she will reload it with healing word x2 and revivify. Already spent the resources.

Airell meets with the thieves guild. Mornie and Arienh join him. The leader of the thieves guild sends people to get Airell and co. and takes them to Ordenintion’s house. Know anything about Waldorf?
It’s been a year since he left. Around when Hacrar used the wish spell. They believe he discovered he was compromised. Are you aware of Xendros Calmorix? Yes. Around that time, Xendros entered the city and overpaid her bribe so they followed her. Arienh remembers that was the meeting Xendros told arienh to spy on.

They found out Waldorf ran a huge spy ring. All were in the service of Iuz. The thieves guild fed false info, eliminated some informants, but Waldorf found out and last autumn Waldorf fled the city. They purged the spies but left a few to make them think they escaped the purge.

Waldorf headed to a not friendly city nearby on the Nir Div. Divers. A pre greyhawk greyhawk. Last seen boarding a ship north, probably back to Iuz. Since the war broke out info is scarce at best. He is a capable info gatherer and spy, an adept liar.

Thief leader guesses Waldorf returned to Iuz to report the loss of the spy ring, assess damage, etc. His best use would be back here again. His talents would be best used in a city. He is a mastermind not a soldier. He might be back in Greyhawk for all they know. He doesn’t think so though, they’ve been looking out. But he’s somewhere.

Airell says Oggy is ‘expired’. K bye. After beer…

Arienh later casts contact other plane through the ring. She is sitting on a porch, feet in the dirt. The smell of the sea. She’s in the old sea grove where she spent her formative years. It’s quiet, no people, but a frog croak is startling. She turns and sees Ferrin. Etta sent him. Go to the giants next, give Kellen some time to… process?

Reyna was old by the time zagyg was born. She’s a bit set in her ways.

Old faith - Reya has believed for 700 years. Arienh should challenge her for high druid status so Reyna will be subordinate to Arienh. It’s either that or have her fighting against Arienh.

Go to the giants. Morty wants to kill the dragon and break the obelisk. That would be bad. Stop it.

The visions are what could be. Use them. Everything she does attracts Iuz’s attention so use that too. You’re already bait, but be bait on purpose.


Session 115 8-24-2024 - MS
Mornie, Airell, Arienh are still in the cave with Nalnaliras. Xendros took MK and Kellen….somewhere.

Nalnaliras turns to Mornie and tells her that she caused this problem. Mornie then says, “Well, do you want us to get her?” Airell puts away his note. Mornie mentions that Xendros has incomplete information and that we need our memories in order to prevent her from making a big mistake. Nalnaliras ponders. Arienh gets the info from Airell that Xendros misunderstands that the God trap will merge MK with the shard. MK is a vessel and isn’t a descendent, and we are unsure if Mordenkainen knows this info. The shards can corrupt whoever they are in.

MK doesn’t appear to be corrupt, but she is the memory of Iuz. She has learned things quickly in the past, like speaking Selouise. Looks like MK and Bigby were unique with having the shards fold themselves into these empty vessels.

He asks Arienh where they are going - the god trap. He mentions that Zagyg did not tell Nalnaliras what the God trap did. Arienh and Mornie try to convince him. He says, “I have a proposition.”

*****
MK, Kellen, and Xendros teleport to the level with a lot of demons. They are in the room with the big triangle. Mordenkainen meets them there. They go to the ziggurat and head to the God trap. They make it there quickly.

Once they get in there, Mordenkainen starts casting a spell. Xendros takes out her portable desk with scrolls and multiple Oridian runes. Kellen asks Xendros if she thinks this plan will work. Xendros checks the time (1 AM) and says this should happen without interruption, but it must be quick. Mordenkainen is casting Mordenkainen’s Inner Sanctum at 9th level. Xendros says that they will need Kellen’s help to convince the Kieran Jelukian (head of the school of wizardry.)

*****
Airell tries to contact Kellen, but then realizes the talisman doesn’t work that way. Nalnaliras proposes that if they reach Xendros, he will allow them to leave as long as we promise to come back. They agree. Airell asks if there is an item that they could use from his dragon horde. He gifts it to Arienh, but after he puts the three under a Gish. He commands them to return to his cave with all of them, and Xendros, and to kill any who do not follow. (Every day we do not carry it out, we take damage, but only if we do not attempt to follow through the Gish.)

Airell asks how to come in the correct way, and Nalnaliras says they must use transmutation, evocation, and abjuration spells must be expended to open the gate - same place. We could have asked the residents there. (Mornie silently swears to herself.)

Nalnaliras gifts a huge dark green drinking horn. While he goes to get it, the three decide how they are going to get to Kellen. It says There is not heroism that has not heard the Whisper of Despair. Airell realizes that is the name of the green dragon whose death created the Dreadwood. The hero used the blood to create the standing stone there. This horn came off the dragon.

Mornie and Arienh go into the two bags of holding and Airell starts getting the talisman to teleport to Kellen and notices that the talisman starts moving.
.
******

MK asks Xendros how this is going to work. She says, “We will turn on the trap and then take the shard out, and then put it back in.” Kellen continues to ask how this is going to work. She’s not convinced that MK will be able to return. Xendros is convinced that this will work and is exasperated that she keeps getting asked questions.

Mordenkainen is activating the God trap. Kellen realizes that she recognizes the runes and could activate the trap without trying. The tendrils start moving and the lights start moving. Kellens mechanical parts start moving and calibrate to the God trap.

MK feels that her organs are being twisted. She feels the other presence inside is afraid and angry. MK keeps asking Xendros if this is supposed to happen. Mordenkainen wraps around the statue in the middle. There is a block of stone under the statue that is five feet thick. The words written on it are written in ancient Oridian. Kellen recognizes this as the type of stones outside of the Abbey Isle. Mordenkainen starts creating marks on the stones. Xendros has the full incantation spread out. The tendrils then start clawing at the runes.

MK continues to question all of this. Mordenkainen snaps at MK and tells him to stop. MK then asks if he would burn down the world if this fails. Mordenkainen brings Ogdrannal and the tendrils take out the body and the spite of Iuz comes out. It’s a yellow red color. The Spite of Iuz is drawn into the blue gem.

Kellen realizes that she can control the tendrils with her gauntlets. Mordenkainen turns to MK and says that it’s now her turn.

******
Nalnaliras asks Airell for the paper. Airell hands it and Nalnaliras calls him an honorable creature. Nalnaliras recognizes the talisman as from Zagyg.

Airell tries to use the talisman and it’s acting strangely. There’s an electrical burst and his hand goes briefly numb.

******
Xendros tells MK to not resist and starts chanting in Abyssal. MK feels the same way when Tasha took over his shard. Demonic MK emerges.
******
Airell pops into existence. Mordenkainen is irritated . Zagyg giggles and tells him that he sets the rules in his house.

Airell calls them iditios and tells them that they are not descendants and that what they are planning will not work. Xendros tells Airell to not do whatever he is planning. The tendrils start pulling the fire away from MK. Xendros picks up the shield. Airell starts convincing Xendros. They argue. Most of the memory of Iuz has been pulled away from MK. The tendrils are starting to snip away the connections between MK and the shard. MK is now unconscious. Both Mornie and Arienh finally get out of the bags.

Mornie speaks firmly to Mordenkainen that he asks for her help and tells him that his understanding of this is incorrect and that Bigby said so. Mordenkainen flinches and stops. They start arguing, and Xendros Commands Mornie to shut up. Mornie runs over to Kellen and shakes her with the intense look of “stop this!” Kellen just says, “She seems to know what she’s doing.” Mornie thwacks her on the side of the head. Kellen takes the talisman from Airell and puts it into the keyhole she sees. Xendros turns to Arienh and tells her “Don’t. Last warning.” Airell casts mage hand and walks away from Xendros.

The tendrils finish snipping the shard away from MK. There are gouges in the flesh of the shard. The gouges are completely in MK. It seems that Bigby was correct that they were formed from shells and not as a descendent.

Mornie runs and tackles Xendros and Airell uses his mage hand to close Xendros’ scroll bag. She snarls, “Can’t you see it’s different?” Kellen sees the shard lunge at Arienh. The movement is halted as the mist stops it. The shard is being pulled towards the yellow gem. The grinning skull from Xendros’ shield explodes into black demonic fanged creatures (Spirit Guardians).  Kellen takes over the God Trap and the glittering black mists change. Mordenkainen is pissed and tells Kellen to put the shard in the gem. Arienh sees the Ogdrannal shard and then sees that MK’s body is breathing. Arienh starts running to MK. Mordenkainen uses his personal wall of force to shield himself. He then tries to take back control of the God trap, but fails.

Mornie continues to grapple Xendros and tries to persuade her that she’s wrong. Arienh heals MK and she wakes up to a scene of chaos. MK feels empty, but there are some memories. Arienh checks in on MK. MK is clearly traumatized, but she isn’t lying about being okay.

He casts mental prison on Kellen and she counter spells it. He tries again to take over the God Trap, but fails. Xendros takes a scroll to cast Time Stop. She casts dispel magic on Airell’s invisible mage hand and then misty steps next to MK.

Xendros tells MK that Kellen needs to stop because they need to bind the shards to her. Kellen finishes having the shards shoved into the gems. MK tries to convince Xendros just to tell Kellen what to do, but it doesn’t work. She wants Mordenkainen to regain control of the God Trap. MK just says, “She has control. Adapt.” Xendros says no and she tries to put Kellen to sleep. Kellen says, “Nope.” Kellen then uses a tendril to restrain Xendros. Airell tries to Silence Mordenkainen, but it doesn’t work. Airell puts his duplicate next to Xendros.

Arienh tells Xendros that it would be nice to know the next part of the plan. Can you communicate instead of just running off? Xendros just growls in frustration. Arienh imbues the sword as she backs up. Mordenkainen casts Synaptic Static.

Kellen casts Globe of Invulernability. Mornie pauses and then asks Mordenkainen, “How? How do you think this is going to work? Don’t you know that they are empty shells? There are no descendants!” She sees that he doesn’t think that he could be wrong. She walks over to MK and heals her.

Mordenkainen casts mental prison on Kellen and regains control of the God trap. Xendros gets rid of the Synaptic static effects. Mornie heals Kellen, but Xendros hits her with a flaming knife. MK breaks free, and Xendros goes nuts.

Morty takes control of the god trap. Arienh casts healing word but Morty counterspells. She dumps a healing potion on down Kellen’s throat. Kellen retakes the God Trap and drinks another potion. Airell casts Silence again and Mordenkainen counterspells it. Mordenkainen then teleports away. Xendros hits Kellen again.

MK grapples her and says, “Shhh…shhhh. It’s going to be okay.” Xendros is crying. “No, MK, you will do this, you love me.”

 Eventually the team knocks Xendros out. Arienh opens up the bag and it sets off a fireball spell that knocks out MK, Kellen, and Arienh. Airell gives everyone some healing potions. Xendros staggers to her feet and starts casting a spell, but Mornie takes her out. Mornie ties her up and gags her.

Airell explains to MK and Kellen the oath we took with Nalnaliras. He will emphasize that it will require Xendros to forget what happened inside of here.

The conversation about what to do will happen next time. We all level up.

Inspiration: Airell


Session 114 8-10-2024 - LA
Sometime on Moonday Reaping 17. It took several hours to traverse the depth of the Tower of Magic.
We arrived at earthcradle where we sacrificed one of the terracotta people to open the portal to the bottom level with the obelisk.
Mostly flooded cavern with small rocky outcroppings. Bare ceiling slopes to up to 60 ft high in places. Looks like a claw gauged out this cavern. The obelisk is almost the same. At the base of this there’s a crown of dull brass and flickering along it is multicolored lighting, the same that was on the godtrap. It’s pitch black, we see a brief flash as Nalnaliras breaths fire, illuminating the scene. It flies around, twisting and turning evading the enemies.
There are bunch of demons.
Floating past in the air is massive flesh, 15ft tall and vaguely pyramid shaped. This is the cybriax. It’s ugly. Ichor and bile drips of it. Barbed chains dangle from it’s flesh and are under it’s control. It chants in abyssal.
The floor below is covered in dozens of fallen mains. The waters churn and bubbles, we can see rotting black tide spreading through.
Coiled on one of the stones is Relehuntes.
Noneliris is bleeding and looks hurt.
Xendros recognizes the chanting as a spell that cybriax is casting.

Xendros casts Holy Weapon on MK. MK now emits light in 60ft.
Kellen summons her flying armor.
MK casts Bull Strength from the armor.
Mornie is invisible and ghosting.
Arienh is bringing Fire Spirit.

Marching order:
MK, Airell
Mornie, Kellen
Xendros, Arienh

Most everyone splashes into the water. Kellen and Mornie fly. Behind us is a green gemstone.
Water is 20 to 40 feet deep. It’s dark. The ceiling slopes upward around 60-80ft tall. The walls are sheer and cannot be climbed without climb speed.

Initiative!
The water starts to churn and becomes difficult terrain. From the darkness a spout of water lunges out towards Airell. His skin starts to blister from acid damage and is pulled away by the water.
Xendros Guiding bolts the big scary thing.
Relohuntes tails Airell and he’s grappled and restrained.
Mornie dimension doors her and MK closer to the battle.
Airell dimension doors away from the grapple.
Cybriax casts dispel magic on the holy weapon.
MK gets attacked.
Xendros pulls out a scroll of dimension door, takes Kellen with her.
Arienh is running.
Kellen casts Charm Monster. It works!
Dragon swooped past and one of the demons attacked it. The dragon is breathing fire on all of us. It hurts a lot.
Relohuntes is a solid 5.
There are bodies of the twisted mains floating in the water. In most places the flesh of them is “normal” black brown demonic flesh. But in some places it’s reddish brown that flakes like terracotta and others have scales of gold.
Cybriax casts hold monster on the dragon.
MK hits Relohuntes. Trips her, action surges.
Xendros uses scroll of magic misses on cybriax.
Mornie runs and attacks Vrocks.
Cybriax sprays on the dragon.
Airell casts Mirror Image on himself.
xendros casts Holy Aura on everyone but Arienh. Then she heals MK for 15.
Cybriax tries to dispel, Kellen counters.
xendros casts Sanctuary on the dragon.
Kellen gets hit with 7 attacks. Her armor drops and she falls in the water.
Arienh casts produce flame.
Kellen takes out a megaphone and sends a Pcsycic Scream. Relohuntes’s head explodes. Sibriax fails concentration save.
Dragon casts Majestic presence to Charm everyone.
Nalnaliras tells Airell to attack the Tiefling.
Coming through the portal is a large horse sized creature that is flying. It’s a kismet, another demon.
MK kills a thing. Water calms down. She runs to the newcomer and mauls him hard.
Sibriax finally dispels the Holy Aura.
Arienh sends some magic missles. Fire spirit finishes the new monster.
Xendros casts Sleep at 9 level. One main falls asleep, falls down and hurts itself, wakes up prone.
Kellen tries mental prison on Sibriax, it doesn’t work.
Xendros casts Tasha’s Mind Whip.
Mornie shoots the last Vrock. It doesn’t have a soul.
Kellen falls dead from the fire breath.
DM plays with himself doing some damage.
Lair keeps trying to banish Sibriax and fails.
Mornie shots the last main and some terracotta shards fall down. She heals Kellen.
Airel is compelled to attack Xendros again with his best attack.
Sibriax spews biles on Xendros, but she dodges.
Dragon attacks the evil blob. Dragon uses majestic presence again.
Xendros does flame stricke.
MK runs at the last main.
Airell shoots the Sibriax and kills it. And then it kills the last demon.
Arienh through the spirit Heals the dragon for 90 HP. She asks him to stop attacking and talk.
Kellen gets up, runs through the healing flames and also asks dragon to not attack.
Dragon is surprised by Xendros.
Mornie tells the dragon about the island and the Dragonborn that IT crew rescued.
Arienh says that their top priority is to protect the obelisk.
The dragon looks very confused. He asks why they came through the murderers gate. Mornie says it’s the only way they knew to get down there.
The dragon looks tired. He says that there are other ways to enter. He doesn’t like that we opened the gate by killing a being.
MK tries to go and explore, but the dragon bellows “trespass no further”.
Everyone stops where they are.
Mornie: it’s hard to convince people who are fighting to stand down and see reason. We’re here to help.
Dragon: i show no mercy to those who come through murderer gate. I show compassion to those who pass through “whatever” gate. I will allow you to leave through the master’s gate. It will take you to the surface. Your memories will remain here. You won’t know the obelisk is here. There’s only one way out of here - that’s what the laughing god invented.
Mornie: how many times have the elves come here?
Dragon: dozens
	i will accept you’ve done a service.
he moves aside to let us pass
airell in draconic: has the doom of the people of nanlelalnelaeras complete?
dragon: your Speech is not bad. My people - their doom is all but assured. They’re not defended against the brotherhood. Their sacrifice was enough to break the back of the demonic invasion. So long as this one (Xendros) will not return with reinforcements.
arienh: we thank you for protecting the obelisk. I’m willing to forego my memories (starts to leave)
Xendros grabs Arienh and pulls her back: we need the god trap!
Arienh: you’re missing some information about the god trap. Right now, we need to go
Xendros: let me do something really quick… if we can speak privately without the dragon
MK: if we leave, we’ll just go right back in
Arienh: will we remember having accomplished our mission?
Dragon: no
Mornie: we have an obligation to protect the world. If we lose our memories, we won’t accomplish our mission. We’ll keep coming back. We just need to solve this and move to the next step. The world is at stake.
Airell is sneaking his mage hand all over the place. Chaka bow-ow!
nalnaleris slips into the water to get closer to Mornie
Dragon: i understand the wisdom of your words. But it is my duty to protect this obelisk. To protect anyone from knowing about it or about its defenses. Or this entire castle. If you are as wise, you’ll understand that the holes in your memory are there for a reason. I cannot allow this information to leave. It would betray the oath i gave to the archmage. And there is wisdom in his instructions. This is the way for as long as i breathe (i told him to hold his breath while we leave through another door…)
Mornie: i understand oaths. Those who ask oaths of us have to understand that we sometimes need to break it to keep the intention behind it. Is there another door we can leave through knowing that we’ll keep whatever whatever
Dragon: even if i trusted you, there is no other way out of here.
Xandros to MK: you trust me? Let’s GTFO
Xandros teleports out with MK.
Kellen goes with them.
Arienh wants to follow dragon’s rules.
Airell sneakily writes “Mordenkainen plan broken” on a piece of paper and puts it in the bag of holding.
Airell asks the dragon about the pile of treasure. REMINDER: RP this next time.

Session 113 8-4-2024 - ML
We have no idea what time it is or even what day. We teleported in on the 15th and have no idea how much time has passed. We found Xendros and she met MK with…passion. She has clearly set up camp in one of the alcoves.

MK is a little stand offish and Xendros is a little hurt by this. It’s not the way she thought it would go. She tells us that we went through training grounds and the safeties have been removed. Like we will keep the exhaustion levels instead of them magically coming off when you leave.

The demons hunting Xendros have yet to make it through as they are pretty dumb. The smartest of them is off causing trouble somewhere else. Arienh has seen her in a scry before, snake lady named Reluhantis.

Xendros needs us to find the god trap. She knows we found it, but couldn’t scry on us while we were here (most of the castle is protected) so she still doesn’t know where it is. When Hacrar used the wish to make everyone love Airell, it drove Baedron (one of the shards) out of Greyhawk.

Xendros allowed Mordienkainen to scry on her. They are working together. Reluhantisis trying to destroy the obelisk so that needs to be dealt with. The dragonborn party that came here is probably dead at this point. Reluhantis would have killed them on the way to the obelisk.

Xendros pulls MK aside for a private conversation. She was send to Saltmarsh to check up on the Scarlet Brotherhood and find out what was taking so long, how they had screwed up. When MK showed up Xendros knew exactly what she was. She knew if she returned MK to Iuz he would make Xendros one of his high priests. So they went to Dorakaa. But when it came time, Xendros couldn’t do it. She loves MK, not the piece that is Iuz. Iggwiliv sensed MK as soon as MK entered Dorakaa as well. She was not about to let Iuz have a shard. So by falling in love with MK it saved Xendros’ life. So when Xendros didn’t turn MK in Iggwilv contacted Xendros after they left Dorakaa .

Xendros and Mordenkainin have something in common. They both have people they care about who are shards. It might be possible to pull the Bigby shard out of Iuz and reform Bigby.

The god trap is another more refined version of the standing stones in Saltmarsh. The runes are hidden under the statue of some god to disguise what the room is.

So when Xendros returned to Saltmarsh Keledek/Morty shared his notes and knowledge with Xendros. She figured out the parts that he was missing were here in Greyhawk castle. When Iuz decided to attack greyhawk castle Xendros took that as her opportunity to get in.

Arienh is distantly related to Ogdrinal. The shards only return to Iuz when the bloodline is gone. Bigby was the last of his line, so his shard returned to Iuz.

Xendros told Iuz that Arienh and the Owelands were in Saltmarsh. It was a risk to tell him that, but she thought they would be safe enough given the distance. This got her put in charge of the group going through castle greyhawk to look for the obelisk. Instead she led them into dead end after dead end while she did her research.

There are tunnels that connect the towers dug by crazy dwarf things.

Morty and Xendros think they can use the god trap to pull the shard out, unfold MK and attach the shard. Morty wants to do the same with Bigby, but doesn’t want Bigby to be first. He needs MK as the trial run because from his perspective MK is expendable.

Xendros knows the obelisk is still standing because Morty said the tear hasn’t gotten bigger.

MK has a piece of divinity in her, she will not die. If the god trap works, MK will have a shard and be able to cut out other shards and take them too.

Will Bigby be able to do the same? Is the next campaign MK vs Bigby as the big bad? Ooh, can we play as clerics of MK? Anyway…

Iggy wants MK to be the one to take the eight shards of Iuz. Leaving one for Bigby. After we “fix” MK, Xendros could man the god trap and as MK defeats the other shards Xendros can keep them in the god trap.

Reluhantis has a small army of demons and a sibriex (they are older than the gods and demonic).

Arienh casts Commune. It’s Eda!

Can we trust Xendros in this situation? Yes.

Should we kill Rala first? Yes.

Can we wait until tomorrow? Yes.

We all convene and discuss. Mornie is not trusting Xendros. Mornie and MK have an argument about whether to trust Xendros.

Xendros shares some of what she can do. She has a bunch of spell scrolls that only she can cast.

We all sleep.

Arienh dreams/ has a vision. Celene is shining over the field of dead wheat and people. Reyna blocks the path to the Nyr Div with Toliath next to her and Anthala at an angle. None of them see Iuz behind them. Arienh’s eyes are drawn to the four obelisks on the sides. They buckle and crumble more than before. The Obelisk is surrounded by demonic forces and they are cracking it. The flames of the void are seeping through the cracks. The one in ket is illuminated by Celene. There is the broken form of a giant impaled on it and the obelisk is melting. Overhead a dragon form stands over the obelisk, as it beats its wings the blood and melted obelisk spread. Last time they were fighting. Now the dragon has won. The shards are not on the water this time, but deep beneath the Nir Dyv surrounding the obelisk there. Oggy, waldorf, the others must be towren and ral something. The obelisk is close to exploding.

The one in Saltmarsh is barely visible. Iuz is searching for it. He sees Arienh looking at it and follows Arienh’s eyes looking toward Saltmarsh and sees it for the first time. He changes directions and heads for Saltmarsh. Arienh moves forward, but Reyna and Toliath block her way. She wakes.

Arienh tells everyone about the vision, we cast spells to get rid of exhaustion, Xendros tells us the plan. She will lead us through the levels to get us down to the lowest level where the obelisk is.

Dungeon delving skill check. Need 15 successes.

Level 1 - automatron patrols.
	Airell uses insight to track the patrols and lead us between them. Success 1.
	Arienh uses survival to find the quietest path. Success 2.
	MK uses stealth to find potential noisy things. Success 3.
Level 2 - university of chaotic maze
	Mornie uses perception, goes invisible and scouts ahead. Success 4.
	Kellen uses arcana to try to trigger a trap to distract. Fail 1.
Level 3 - automaton factory and Zagyg’s workshop
	Arienh uses perception to find a path. Success 5.
	MK uses acrobatics to navigate. Drops Xendros. Fail 2.
	Mornie uses athletics to free Xendros from the automaton that grabbed her. Success 6.
Level 4 - Zagyg’s walk. His personal quarters. Lots of automatons.
	Kellen uses investigation to find safe paths through the magical traps. Success 7.
	Airell uses sleight of hand to disarm traps. Success 8.
	Mornie uses sleight of hand to help disarm traps. Success 9.
	Airell uses perception to get us through the bad guys. Success 10.
Level 5 - Earth cradle. End of what Xendros knows. We head for a multifaceted stone in the center that is surrounded by a rudimentary village of sorts.
MK uses athletics to climb down and secure some rope for the rest of us. Success 11.
Arienh uses a spell to cast pass without trace.  Success 12.
Kellen uses insight to spot hidden demons who are in ambush spots. Success 13.
Mornie uses stealth to ghost and scout. Success 14.
Mornie tells us she sees the demons use the terracotta person to open a portal in the stone.
	Arienh uses insight to scout the best path to the stone. Success 15.

We make it to the terracotta people. They are alive and clearly magical. They have the facility of cows. Xendros pulls one out and starts leading it toward the stone. It whispers “please don’t” but none of us tell Xendros to stop so she slits its throat. As she pushes it into the stone the portal opens and see a peninsula with an islandacross from us with an obelisk on it.  A golden dragon (Nalnaliras) flies around attacked by flying demons. There is an inverted ziggurat of flesh or something.

We go through.


Session 112 7-19-2024 - MS
Spider reappears and try to attack the party. MK gives Mornie a supreme healing potion and starts clearing the web to the area where Mornie saw something brass. She finds a rock hammer and then chucks it to Airell, who catches it.

Airell uses the hammer and taps exactly where he sees the marks. The door immediately crumbles and a corridor is revealed. He ghost steps through the webs holding him and goes into the corridor. He sees a hexagonal gear with runes on the wall. Kellen teleports to Airell. The spider then splats Arienh with web that slams her against the wall and restrains her. Mornie gets up, downs the potion, and starts moving towards the door. Arienh then flames up all of the webs, which clears the room, but hurts some of the team and…wakes up the Beholder. It shoots out a cone of antimagic.

The spider goes after MK who keeps trying to hurt her with its bite. The baby spiders are trying to learn how to attack. It’s adorable how they try. MK then runs over to Mornie and throws her closer to the door.

Arienh, unaware of the Beholder and the Beholder’s ray, looks at the runes and figures out that the runes are a teleportation spell. MK gets pinned with webs. Mornie runs into the corridor and tells Arienh about the Beholder and the anti-magic spell. Arienh looks sheepish and says, “Whoops.” Mornie takes the hammer from Airell and throws it back into the room. Kellen tries to blast the gear but barely does any damage. It appears that the gear has moved before as there are runes now on the wall and it’s at a different angle. Arienh throws up a wall of stone to block out the Beholder and the spider from the corridor. The Beholder then takes down the wall of stone using its ability to disintegrate. Airell hit it with his arrow. MK grabs the hammer and throws it back at Mornie.

Kellen casts “charm monster”and it is now her friend. MK whispers under her breath, “Wow, Kellen has weird friends.” She has to communicate with it non-verbally, so it doesn’t fully understand that the rest of the team is to be left alone. She tells them not to shoot it.

Arienh uses a stone spell to move the gear and the rest of the runes show up on the wall. She pushes the gear five feet into the wall. The spider appears and bites Airell. He stabs it and his shadow blade appears next to him. Mornie swaps spots with Kellen and tells her, "Let's transport!” Kellen convinces the Beholder to go after the spider. It does, but the spider is able to brush it off. The spider then spits webs at Airell and it paralyzed him with a bite. He twitched and went limp. Uh oh. The Beholder attacked the spider with three rays, but there was no effect.

The spider attacks Airell again and it’s very brutal. The Beholder attacks the spider as well and there is finally some damage! Strangely enough, all of the damage on the spider starts also appearing on the Beholder. The Beholder put it to sleep and paralyzed it. When it attacks again, more damage appears on the Beholder. The spider does awaken and the fight of the beasts continues. Mornie cuts out Airell while the Beholder continues to hit the spider with the death ray. The Beholder shoots one more time and it dies from the referred pain from the phase spider.

Airell wakes up and takes a look around at what has happened. The phase spider disappears. Arienh turns to MK and says, “Sorry.” MK sees her staring at the space where the phase spider had been with a flame that flares up in her hand. The spider comes back and Arienh shoots the fireball at MK, who ducks. The spider bites Airell, scoops him out, and bites him again. MK grapples the spider and then it disappears. Mornie tries again to shoot the spider, but sees that the damage barely does anything. She yells out to everyone to stop attacking it, but to block it. Arienh tries to heal everyone.

Mornie jumps on top of the spider to try and keep it from attacking. It somewhat works, but ends up hurting her. MK stops it from moving, but it swipes at Mornie and sends her flying. It then hits MK with its web.

Arienh turns into a planetar and uses her True Sight to see more. She moves into the room and sees that the phase spider is going into the ethereal plane and healing. She tells Mornie where the spider is going to appear. Mornie sees webs starting to grow up all around her. She whips out a torch to start burning out the webs, but the spider hits her with a leg and knocks her across the room again.

Arienh yells out for people to hit her and not the spider, and then heals Mornie. Mornie gets attacked by the spider and she lines up her shot and hits Arienh. The spider squeals a little and dies. The baby spiders are frantic and then start eating their mother. Arienh checks out the dead Beholder and it appears to be decomposing at a rapid rate. Arienh and Mornie then go invisible.

Kellen casts the teleport spell and the teleportation circle shows up on the wall. After walking through, they all end up on a dais with the teleportation circle runes fading. They see Zendros standing at the base of the steps. She looks exhausted, but her voice is still as dulcet as ever. Zendros runs up the stairs and into MK’s arms.

Inspiration: Kellen


Session 111 7-12-2024 - LA
Some time late in the night Reaping 15, Starday. Down in the dungeon. Not even the dungeon that we wanted to go to. No sign of Xendros.
Looking into the Medusa chowder room and purple glowing spheres.
MK peeks in. Airell goes to inspect the ghostly instruments. Mornie unplugs her ears. It’s a waltz. Mornie pretends to dance. It doesn’t charm. Everyone takes earmuffs off. There are different songs.
Mornie slowly walks through the room and looks for traps. Doesn’t find anything. Nothing shiny on the floor.
Kellen sends the eye to explore behind doors, there are hallways. Two dead ends have another hexagonal thing in the wall and a stone in front of it with a different texture, kinda like a doormat.
Another dead end looks like it was molded over and there’s that room with the chest that connects to the quiet room.
Airell also doesn’t find anything.
MK doesn’t recognize the music, but she recognizes classical music.
Lots of flames on dead medusas and Arienh heals people from them. Still weird.
Another Con check. Kellen and Mornie get more exhausted.
Kellen tries to control the sphere and fails. It lurches towards her, but stops a few feet off.
Mornie goes to the instruments and dances to the music. It’s a decent waltz. Nothing happens.

Kellen summons construct on the other side of the wall. It stands on the plate - nothing happens. Kellen tells it to go try to turn the gear.

Another Con save. Mornie and MK get tired.
Arienh tries to Message Xendros in all directions.

Airell casts detect magic to look for loot in the chum. Nothing interesting. Lots of nice clothing and jewelry.

Mornie goes through the opening, sees lots of hallways. She investigates the plate and the hex in the wall. Nothing happens.
Arienh looks around and then casts Divination again. She asks “If we want to find Xendros which way should we go?” She gets pulled up the hallway to a door.
Airell finds a warm wall. He keeps walking around investigating.

MK busts through the door and she, Kellen and Arienh get teleported inside. Mornie sees that.
A torch of white flame bursts in a corner. It’s a large torch held by a giant metal automaton. On the other side there’s another automaton clutching it’s right fist to its chest. They start to move marching clockwise around the room.
There are doorways in the NW corner covered by smooth stone and middle of Southern wall is a wooden door with paint on it that says “don’t knock, you’ll wake him”. The writing is familiar goblin.
Mornie calls Airell.

Kellen looks at the automatons. She doesn’t find off switch, but she notices that shadows are moving weirdly. Something’s wrong with the light.
MK hits the top corner door with the hammer. Nobody cares. But the door is thick.
As soon as Mornie peaks around she gets teleported in.
Airell comes back, but doesn’t get into the room.
Mornie says she sees a table and a pedestal with vases in the corner. But they are not there. She goes there and tries to touch it. There’s nothing there. There’re shadow of furnitures in the room, but there’s nothing there.
Arienh closes her eyes and tries to touch it without looking. There’s still nothing there.
Kellen looks into ethereal plane - nothing there.
MK tells Mornie to make her shadow interact with the shadow of objects. It works! The vase lifts up. She can feel something, but there’s no weight. She drops it and the shadow shatters.
Arienh goes to investigate the shadows. She doesn’t find anything.
Kellen checks behind doors. The one with “don’t knock” has a Beholder in it. It is snoring.
Airell tries to sneak by with his eyes closed, but the room sees him and teleports him in.
Mornie moves shadowy table closer to the wall and tries to peak into the hand of the giant who is clutching something. She sees a faint glimmer of brass. She goes ghostly and tries to take the item. It works!
Another Con save.
Arienh finds the keyhole in the door when the automaton in the correct position.
Mornie grabs the key, the automaton turns to her and starts to swing. Roll initiative!
automaton breaks pattern and hits her a lot. Airell hits it.
Arienh says we need to go through the beholder room.
MK runs for Mornie and Bait&Switches with her saving her from 2 attacks.
Mornie disengaged and ran away.
Airell shoots the automaton again.

Mornie moves in position to unlock the door. Arienh casts Pass Without a Trace,Kellen casts Invisibility. Mornie puts a shadow of the key into the shadow of the keyhole. The door unlocks.
The automaton goes for Mornie, MK sentinels it, it stops. MK is not invisible. She keeps attacking. The automaton looks rough.
Mornie goes invisible, opens the door and looks at the sleeping beholder. She goes in and under the thing.
This room is filled with thick cobwebs. There’s a doorway in the SW corner and one in the East wall. Both doorways are covered by molded stone.
MK gets attacked, but she’s fine.
Airell goes through the door.
The strands of webs are very thick.
Arienh also goes into the room.
Kellen gets under the beholder into the door as well. Does not get stuck in the webs.
Airell looks at the door and sees chip marks like something was picking at it.
Mornie chucks the key back towards the automaton.
MK finishes the automaton. She action surges and runs through the door and goes prone right under the sleeping beholder.
The door closes behind.
Arienh finds a lot of spiders on the ceiling. They are not tiny spiders, it’s one giant spider. It’s carapace is white and blue. There are hundreds of young spiders running on its body.
Mornie sees it apparate out of nowhere. She slashes it with a sword. Somehow she feels pain inside of her.
Mornie found a key in NW corner.
Mornie is prone, Kellen is prone, Airell is restrained.
And then it dissappears. At the same time the webs reform and drip with sticky goo. Until initiative 20 next round all movement cost 3x.

Exhaustion count:
Arienh:  3
Kellen:  4
MK:  2
Mornie: 2
Airell:  2

Arienh wants to make a horizontal Wall of Fire.

 Inspiration: Mornie
Session 110 7-7-2024 - ML
We are in the painfully noisy room. Arienh pulls out her necklace light. Airell casts silence (subtly). He starts to investigate one of the statues of Zagyg. Kellen inspects one of the doors. It’s clearly been shaped by magic and only seems to be a few inches thick so she casts arcane eye on the other side.

She sees a hallway, made of the same grey stone, that goes for 30 or 35 ft before it would turn right, but is covered by another stone wall. Nearest the door to Kellen is a chest. There’s a recessed area too.

Arienh writes on the stone to ask for directions.

Mornie inspects the statues.

Airell pours gin over what he has realized is paint on the statue. There is a gold glint beneath the paint.

The silence spell ends and after some painful communication and mold earth writing on the walls we figure out that the statues need to be moved. Airell recasts silence and MK pushes over a statue. It might be solid gold, definitely solid metal.

Arienh and Mornie try to move the bottom left statue but it’s too heavy so Arienh blindfolds it.

Mornie tests to see if it’s still loud. Yep.

Kellen shoots a gun at the door on the north wall. Not making much progress.

Mornie puts a sticky bomb on the south door. Not enough to get through. Arienh blows up her gun powder. Door is open but the statue is in the way. After much group effort the statue is tipped into Kellen’s demiplane. We now have a gold statue. Yay! Silence drops. No!!

Arienh goes down the newly opened hall. As soon as she passes the threshold the sound is no longer amplified, but it is freezing cold. On the floor in the next room is a puzzle.

Letters on the floor, some crumble when touched. We start to eliminate some.

Airell sticks his head in the hole that was the letter I and sees a pool of water 30 ft down stretching the entire length of the room. He casts light on a piece of cloth and drops it down so he can see.

Mornie and Arienh guess that the letters spelling Zagyg are safe so Arienh starts testing letters having MK keep her from falling if one crumbles.
Kellen flies to the door. Same magic stone blocking it. She crosses a rune and falls. Mornie drags her back and she takes out a bunch more letters out as she goes.

We keep testing letters.

Airell flies his broom over and sees lots of earthbind glyphs. He puts in a row of pitons instead for us to rock climb across. Arienh crosses and casts stone shape to make a tunnel through the door. It’s a stone tunnel. Warmer, but no other effects.

Everyone else goes across. There’s a hallway going south. We make our way (...) through the passages. We do a little healing.

As we continue someone sees some metal gear thing stoneshaped into the wall. Similar to in the hall where Kellen used her arcane eye previously. She sends another arcane eye out to scout. She finds a hidden compartment. She tries to drop a piton in, but nothing happens.

Next she tries to eldrich blast the door. This will take too long. There’s a grate covered by an illusion and behind it is more stone. She casts arcane eye behind it and sees a room with a chest and a couple more doors. Also another gear. She arcane eyes inside the chest.

Meanwhile Airell and Arineh cast augury and divination. Airell asked if it is good to go through the door. Yes. Arienh asks what to do with the gears. Zagyg tells her “You turn them and have a fun time (giggle giggle).”

MK tries to bust open the door. Airell goes through when the hole is big enough and investigates the chest. Finds a key.

Kellen sees the northern door ripple slightly when Airell opens the chest. There’s a keyhole.

Airell mage hands the key to Kellen who mage hands it to the door which dissolves immediately. Kellen investigates the new corridor. There’s a normal wood door. Arcane eye to the other side and Monsters and Pits and Danger Oh My! Two pits (deeper than 30 ft), 2 undead ogres (motionless).

Kellen looks behind the north door and sees so many medusas and dancers and spectral music and purple glowing things and petrified statues. The medusas are dancing with the statues.

We decide to go in the ogre room. Arienh casts pass without trace and fire spirit, Kellen casts invisibility. As soon as the door is opened we are teleported to the center of the room.

The door we came through is now stone. The only other exit is a stone covered door leading to the medusa room.

We fight. MK shoves several ogres into the pits.

We take a moment to plan for the medusa room and as we are discussing options Airell says, “Something is happening to the door! Sounds like when Kellen does her thing.” He hands Arienh a scroll of Tsunami and says, “Look, I got you a gift.”

Arienh hands mirrors to MK and Mornie. Kellen has a mirror. We plug our ears against the music.

Airell yells, “Wait!” and runs over to his owl on the other side of the room. It’s on a plate that is making the door click. We guess the plate will open the door so Arienh stands by the door ready to cast Tsunami. The rest go jump on the plate but they don’t weigh enough.

Arienh casts stench kow and then Tsunami. The stench kows vanish and the medusa are turned into chum by the wave bashing them against the purple spheres. A minute later the water subsides and we are free to explore the gorey disaster of this room.

Exhaustion levels:
Airell - 2
Arienh - 2
Kellen - 2
Mornie - 0
MK - 1

Inspiration: MK
Session 109 6-23-2024 MS
Half hour past sunset, Reaping 10 (moonday)

Airell is popular? Citywatch is watching over the IT crew. Vivienne and fam are making food for the crew. Hacrar sent people to bring Airell to Needfest. But since he didn’t show, it turns out people went a bit crazy and over 100 people died in the riots. Hacrar told the crew that he wished that everyone in Greyhawk would think of Airell as he does. (mentions German bird Jesus).

MK talked about her conversation with Tasha. Tasha is working with Iuz, but only because she has to. Gratz and Tasha got together and the result was Iuz. Tasha never wanted to abort Iuz, but she has to do what he says…to the letter. Iuz cannot kill Tasha outright, but can make her do impossible tasks. Turns out that Tasha protected the descendants of the betrayers. When Iuz found out, he wiped her memory (those were her “Tasha years”). She made the weapons of the betrayers. Tasha even worked w/ Zaggig to build the godtrap. Once she helped with the Godtrap concept, she fled from Greyhawk so she could avoid knowing the secrets of the castle. Tasha then told MK that Zandros was searching for the godtrap and permanent solution to imbue the shard into MK’s body. Unfortunately Zandros has been found out. Iuz’s world view is that he must be the strongest, but he is in nine pieces, so he will never be whole. And he wants to flip the table and start over (kill everyone).

Hacrar comes in with a tray of ales & three other men. Deider Fanchen, head of the city watch w/ Kireren Jalucian, who flew on a younger silver dragon to fight Tasha, and Org Nenshen, master of the thieve’s guild came into the room too. They ask that the crew show up to meet with the town mayor. The crew is going to stay at Hacrar’s house.

Mornie talks to Vivienne about Castle Greyhawk. Vivienne knows nothing about any strange doings in the castle, but she mentions the significant amount of battles going on above Neer Dyv. She mentions that there are Bandit kingdoms in the north attacking the Shield States. Those kingdoms are united under someone and are overrunning the northern area. There’s a major call for soldiers and adventurers to join the fight against the bandits. Mornie changes the subject to talk about Hacrar and Vivienne shares that Hacrar’s mom was livid about him using her magic items. She cleared out the vault in the Greyhawk house as a result and almost brought Hacrar home.

Takes forever to get to Hacrar’s house because of how popular Airell is now (beetle mania?) Hacrar and Airell talk about his adventures.

Morning, Reaping 11
Perceived to be there to help with the bandit kingdom problems.

Brought into the Lord Mayor’s house, looks really nice (freakishly nice). Org Nenshen, Kireren Jalucian, Lord Mayor Nerof Gasgal, Thafrick Elerock (captain general of their military), and Vespairian Lafanel, leader of the assassin’s guild. Hacrar came with the IT Crew.

Thafrick explains that a name has popped up a lot - Barron Halnar, (Arienh recognizes this name as the shard fury of Iuz), and he has united the bandit kingdoms. The Dutchy of Ten was raided first and the duke fled south. This Baron is quite charismatic and convinced the military of the duchy he just conquered to work for him. That military has been attacking the County of Urnst and the Bandit Kingdoms has pushed the army of the Shieldlands to the coast of the  Nyr Dyv. The Horn society is attacking the major city of Gradforty. Trying to get all the shores of the Nyr Dyv. Additionally, the witch queen is also causing problems (Tasha?) by conquering another area that would control the main river into Neer Dyv. Kingdom of Nyronn and kingdom of Allysa are at war. The Empire of the Bright lands is led by Rebollar and is attacking the Dutchy of Urnst. All the allies of Greyhawk are occupied.

IT crew was asked to go north but they are still set on going to Castle Greyhawk. There is a parade in Airell’s honor on Reaping 18 (Godsday). During the conversation with the mayor, Airell and Arienh notice that the people reflect Hacrar’s emotions towards Airell. It turns out the city sees Airell as Hacrar sees him at that moment. ALL. THE. TIME.

IT crew goes shopping; takes FOREVER. Can get things 25 to 50 percent off.

The night after the meeting with the mayor, Arienh is pretty exhausted and still wakes up shivering in the cold. She finds herself in the middle of a green field with burning black whorls of charred wheat all around her. She is wreathed in a multi-colored flame. This is similar to the visions she has had in the past. The night sky is a dome of black starless night. One of the two moons is in the sky - Selene. It’s glowing like an aquamarine gemstone. She passes through three scarlet brotherhood figures and only Harid is alive. She sees Neerdyv and Iuz is standing in the waters. In her path is Reyna Yargrove, wearing the antler crown, and is intent on blocking Arienh’s path. Past her is the archdruid Toliath, Ineros Dawnsinger, and Anthala Keen. Anthala is actually turned to the side, but looking in a different direction. Like Reyna, Anthala has his back to the Neer Dyv and the threats there. Iuz is standing in the water and there are parts of him that are still corporeal. Iuz is glaring and totally focused on Arienh. He’s wading in the waters coming towards her (this is different). The shards are following him. She recognizes Waldorf and Ogdrennal. The other two are silhouettes.

For the first time ever, she sees beyond Iuz. She sees the six tears from the Chained Oblivion. Three are not contained while the other three are.  There are shadows around the obelisk that’s beneath the land. The shadows don’t appear to be damaging it…yet. There’s a third obelisk in the west in the land of Ket. Around it she sees a dragon and a giant locked in battle. There are cracks spreading along the obelisk. The last obelisk is deep beneath the waters of the Neer Dyv. It looks like it’s ready to explode at any moment.

She wakes up covered in sweat.

Kellen failed to Dream to Zandros.

Reaping 13
Mornie tries to explain the issues with the giants to Hacrar. He seemed disappointed. He really wants Airell to convince the king to send troops to Greyhawk.

When she’s walking away from Hacrar, she hears: It was only personal when Drawmij made it personal(.) in her head. Mornie immediately figures out that it is Mordenkainen. He says that he doesn’t want to be at odds with her and the IT Crew. He confirms that Tasha’s conversation with MK is true and he said that Zandros is looking for a way to seal MK’s shard into MK’s body. He ends the conversation stating that he will contact her tomorrow and that he hopes that the IT Crew can work with him.

Mornie gathers the IT Crew in Arienh’s room to discuss what Mordenkainen was talking to her about. MK states that he must really be afraid of her, and then Mordenkainen responds in Mornie’s head, “I am not afraid of you [MK], I am afraid of what Iuz will do.” Well shit - he lied about the spell.

Mordenkainen explained a few things:
Yes, he killed off the Circle of Eight because Bigby found out that he was a shard and told Mordenkainen and Tenser. Mordenkainen said to keep it between them but Bigby said he had already told Tenser. The archmages would have killed Bigby (bad)? Mordenkainen killed some of the other archmages.
Robellar is actually the cloned opposite of the real Robellar. This happened below in Castle Greyhawk (the same thing that happened to Kellen.)
Mordenkainen and Tasha arranged a deal with the dragon/mage of the Valley. Need the blood of the Fist of the Furnace to create a similar Standing Stones. Turns out the dragon wants to raise his dead sister.
Zandros and Mordenkainen are working together and she needs to be rescued, fast.
Mornie asked how Mordenkainen could dream to Arienh and talk to her when you’re supposed to know the person. Mordenkainen reveals that he is the mage Keledec from Saltmarsh. Also Mordenkainen was pretending to be Skerrin in order to study the Standing Stones at Saltmarsh.
Mordenkainen and Zandros want to use the Godtrap to suppress the shard and seal it into MK. This is the trial run because Mordenkainen wants to use it on Bigby once he’s freed from Iuz. Turns out Bigby is one of Mordenkainen’s only close friends.
Mordenkainen has no idea where Zandros is rn. Large portions of the tower are blocked/protected? No idea what she is facing. Lost a lot of “people.”

Reaping 15 (starday), long rest is completed.
The Parade is now on the 15th after some convincing of the people running the event. It comes out very very very outlandish.

Arienh makes the feast a Hero’s Feast for everyone in preparation of heading into the Castle.

The IT Crew learns a little more about The Airellian Creed -  it is about improving oneself with humor and pranks.

Hacrar is talking to Airell about taking care of the giant problem and bringing the Keoland army to protect the Nyr Dyv. Airell tells Hacrar to keep spirits up in Grayhawk.

The wizard helps teleport the IT Crew to the Castle Greyhawk in time with the Lord Mayor’s speech.

They walk into craziness.

Runes start going off in the room which causes walls of force and sickening radiance. The IT Crew teleports out of it.

MK hears Zandros’ voice in her head and says that she needs to go to the third statue on the right. MK immediately heads in. Everyone follows and Arienh is the last one in. She sees dwarves (gray/white skin, white eyes and white/gray hair) come into the room with a demonic frog. Dwarves scatter and the demonic frog goes at a full sprint right at her. She turns and heads into the statue and sees a room with crystal balls. One flashes green and teleports her to a room with marble statues of Zagig in a shushing motion. Low ceiling and three doors. MK tries to motion to everyone to get quiet, but it’s not effective. Airell causes damage just by walking across the room and then moaning a little in pain. Mornie ghosts and Kellen decides to cast Levitate, which has a talking component which causes more pain to everyone. Arienh is the last one there. What are we going to do?
Session 108 6-2-2024 LA
12:30am on Reaping 9.
Kellen appeared on FS with the hole. Sohrel is shouting orders, all 6 canons are firing (which means some are manned by people who don’t know how to fire). Sohrel looks like she hasn’t slept in a while. She turns and says “Thank god you’re here Kellen. Where is everyone?”. There’s an army of undead under.
Kellen runs down to the deck and opens the hole.
The crew looks completely exhausted. Dalem says “Undead and giants got ambushed by MK’s brother the king in Grun Halten, now leading them to another ambush. Need to keep them all here and moving till morning. These are the ones that fell back, there are more that are trapped in the flooded valley, but don’t worry about it.”
It’s dark, can only see shapes beneath.
Arienh says she can wipe most of them out, but it will be costly, so it’s a no.

Skill challenge:
Kellen makes some flares and drops them down (tinkerer tools)
Mornie goes into ghost form, slides down a rope and uses her obsidian steed to harry the giants. (Performance)
Airell also goes down the rope and Destroys Undead. Succeeds but gets some damage.
Arienh throws Wydhaus up in the air and turns him back into dragon. She casts wall of fire down on the giants. Wydhaus dives down screaming ‘geronimo!”.
Wydhaus breaths a slowing breath, but it doesn’t work as well as he hoped.
Wydhaus turns around and uses his mischievous presence. That works better. Somehow zombies and bleakwalkers are laughing.
Kellen wraps rope around herself and levitates under the ship and pushes the herd together with Eldritch blasts.
Mornie shoots at the stragglers. It works. She manages to kill 2 bleakwalkers. She gets hit a bit, but fares alright.
Arienh does a lookout shouting to the gunners where to aim.
Airell helps with the ropes under Spider climb.
Success!

We’re heading into a valley, the skies begin to lighten way before the sun comes up (that’s the way mountains work). We hear horns and echoes of hooves. As the zombie horde follows past the river. 4000 cavalry descends and slams right in the side of the horde. There’s a sigil of Keoland, the person leading it Baron Richard Jorgos. Over the next hour cavalry fights the undead. In the distance archers are picking out the stragglers. In the distance, haggard looking Kimbertos is fighting with his rangers.
A small group of undead is heading east and running away. Everyone else is wiped out.

An hour after sunrise. Kimbertos hails “Our saviors again!” Mornie rides up on her nightmare. They talk horses. He’s very happy to see the IT crew and Wydhaus. He asks about MK and has a somber face. Mornie tells him she’s likely alive, but they will need to find her.
Mornie flies the king on her mare. They go to Rickard to tell him to go north.

Soldiers climb up on the FS.
Arienh recognizes the valley, she met Reyna here before. It has been depopulated since then.
We reach Grunhalten mid-morning. It is a swamp. North end of the valley there’s a line of broken barges that diverted the river to create the swamp. There are bodies stuck in the mud. Human archers are picking them off. Muffled explosions as the barges are being exploded. The river is no longer diverted.
Kimbertos says the FS was very helpful, the denizens of Gnome were helpful too.
Everything worked out here. He wants to take the FS back to Longspear to tell everyone about the victory. He kinda asks Mornie if it’s ok to take the ship.

Mornie fills in the king on what happened to MK.  She says we got into it with the Fist of the Furnace, MK teleported away, we don’t know exactly what happened, but we need to find her. Mornie mentions that they killed some of Fist’s family. King says that he will remember Mornie. Fire giants hold grudges.
Arienh attempts to scry on MK. She takes out a lock of her hair dyed red.
MK is somewhere hot in a thunderstorm. She looks miserable, trudging along a road heading east, rocky hilly country, farm lands, it looks vaguely familiar. She’s alone, looks beat up. The road is empty, probably because of the thunderstorm. No big trees.

II crew convenes. Arienh tries to describe the place, but it’s too generic.
As we get back to Grunhalten, Wydhaus flies in first.
Mornie goes to talk to him. He’s super happy. She asks him how he got caught. He got ambushed, knocked unconscious and woke up on a treasure pile. He was traveling with Reina at the time, she turned into Balor, but there were too many. Last he saw her she turned into a bird. She snuck in after he was captured, tried to rescue him, but he didn’t go. They already had that treasure ready. It wasn’t specifically for him.

Mornie asks if he recognizes Memory of Ruin. It needs one last component - dragon’s blood. He says it gets uncomfortable fast. He clarifies that it’s “life blood”. Mornie puts away the weapon and says never mind. She clarifies that she’s not planning to kill him.
He asks if Reyna was there too. Mornie says yes.
He asks if they took any treasure with them.
There’s a blue dragon in the valley of the mage. It’s kinda a secret. The treasure was for him.
Mornie asks about treasure. Wydhaus recommends getting rid of it. He says give it to somebody you don’t like. He says he used to have a centaur Druid friend that he would’ve picked, but he’s paste now. He got smashed by a giant.

Arienh goes around asking everyone if they recognize the place MK’s at. Nobody knows. She ritual casts Divination - Where should we go to find MK? One of the pouches on Airell’s belt tears and a bunch of domino tiles spill out. They are the tiles to play Merchants of Here. Arienh’s vision zooms in on that. That game is from Greyhawk.
Arienh is also tripping balls.

Airell detects magic on the coins that he collected.

Short rest. Kellen gives a speech.

King reboards the ship along with some rangers and Yeomanry citizen-soldiers. Ship goes to Longspear. After 2 hours we arrive a minor triumph. The king is pretty smart to pull this all off.
Most of the uglies were destroyed.
Kings gives speech welcoming IT crew, Heroes of the Javan.


Reaping 10. Moonday.

New nicknames - Goth Mommy, Needy Daddy and Horny Girl.
Mornie is a little worried that Kimbertos still thinks Reina is helping him. And doesn’t know about big wizards.
Airell suggest saying something like “her motives might’ve been aligned, but not anymore.”.
At some point a page pops in and says that the king wants an audience.
Kimbertos is wearing some home clothes as IT crew comes in. There are maps that indicate that he’s planning to go north. He shakes Airell’s hand.
King asks about FS - we’re okay leaving it here. He says that he’s planning to send it to Gradsul with Bishop Temot.
Arienh warns that the ship might stop flying at some point. Carden hands Kellen a sending stone. King is asking if we will be able to answer the call when he needs us for the war.
He says that someday he will owe us a favor.
He looks kinda awkward. Mornie shakes his hand, Kellen gives him a consensual hug.
Airell says that MK wanted to send her best wishes to Duke Feldrin.
Airell warns the king that Reina might not be on his side anymore. King takes it under advisement and asks if he should trust Teliath. Airell says he doesn’t know. King says Tolaith is Reina’s servant.

Plan: Tree to Arboretum and get to Vivian’s house. Check with Thieves guild to see if they are still mad at Airell.

A squire delivers 4 ornate bottles. 2 superior and 2 supreme Healing Potions. The squire is very impressed with Airell.
Airell is doing Mornie’s makeup. She now has black hair. Disguise is 29.
Airell is a generic halfling, Kellen goes halfling too.
Arienh combs her hair to look more presentable.
We wait until it’s nighttime in Greyhawk.
Arienh keeps thinking how Reina knew where we were going. She’s pretty sure Tolith is a spy for Reina.

Airell gets a message at 1pm. Hacrar summons Airell. MK is here, under protection. Not Hacrar’s voice, someone professional.
Airell replies: Coming tonight. Will be in touch as soon as possible after arrival. Tell Hacrar he’s done well.

Go through the tree at dusk - nondescript gnome, nondescript halfling, a goth human, and another human woman. Arrive in the botanical gardens and start walking through the garden.

The guards recognize Airell somehow. Uh oh. Airell is famous. One kid ran away quickly and Mornie stops him. This entire situation is weird. How do they recognize Airell when he’s in disguise? It’s a bunch of groupies.

MK’s story
On a tower overlooking a city. Gothic architecture that’s been gothed-up. There’s a slum city that became permanent. Tall ramshackle wood. Surrounding city a wall made of black stone with skulls carved into it, occasionally real skulls. The main road that leads through iron gates every 60 yards there’s a skull with a skull, some are screeching. She recognizes this place, this is Daraka, capitol city of Iuz.

Tasha is standing next to you. She brought MK there to see how much MK was Iuz. If she would’ve enjoyed the city that would’ve meant she’s Iuz who built it.

She mentions that Xendros is on a mission to help MK. Officially Xendros spent last 2 years in castle Greyhawk looking for the obelisk defended by the dragon. Actually she was looking for Godtrap to find a permanent solution for the seal that MK has. Xendros wants to permanently bind the shard into MK.

MK asks what Tasha’s goals are. Tasha says to kill Iuz. Iuz is both a person and an entity. It seems that they are not the same. MK is piece of that divinity. All of the shards want to keep their personalities. Xendros turned her back on the worship of her god to do it for MK. She’s in trouble somewhere below Greyhawk. That’s why Reina told Arienh to come there. Tasha thought Reina would be more convincing. Tasha admits to killing Drawmij. He was on his own side and couldn’t see reason.

Tasha says she got Iuz as part of a deal with Graz’zt and she cannot disobey him. That’s why MK should go find Xendros and fix the problem. Next time Tasha will not be this nice.

Why did Tasha kidnap the other shard? To piss of the Fist of the Furnace. And it worked. She will hold Ogdranal for a bit and then let him go.

Iuz has a plan. He’s not stupid. He knows what the shards are trying to do will not work. It’s not possible to use the power of Chained oblivion to do it. Iuz’s plan is at the moment when all the shards turn onto each other he will teleport to Saltmarsh standing stones he will redirect power onto the other obelisk to let the chained oblivion flow in until there’s nothing left including himself. He decided to flip over the table since he cannot win.

Tasha spent many years helping betrayers hide, preserving their lineage, building the godtrap. She left before she knew the plans for castle Greyhawk, so she couldn’t tell Iuz. Because she can’t resist Iuz. She’s been trying to unfuck this mess.
She was dealing with this for 600 years. She wants him gone or reformed into a different person that she doesn’t have to obey.

MK says it’s hard to believe whose side Tasha is on when that’s how she’s acting.
Reina - she’s pretty much done with Arienh.
And Tasha disappears.

MK wakes up. Tasha left MK right outside Castle Greyhawk.  It’s a bit past dawn. About half days march from Greyhawk. Thunderclouds in the distance. MK chugs healing potions and makes her way to town. Nobody is on the road. Around mid-day MK reaches Greyhawk.  By evening, she’s entered and found Hacrar’s house. His servant doesn’t want to let her in and tries to send her to the stables. MK resigns and goes.

Hacrar returns many hours later. The servant brings MK inside.  Hacrar is very happy to see her. He talks about adventures. MK asks to contact Airell, Hacrar will contact guild of wizardry tomorrow.

They catch up. Hacrar made a wish that everyone in Greyhawk will see Airell exactly how he sees him. Bishop Crestwood would want to meet him. They renamed the church created a new creed of their religion after Airell. Airellism is a thing now. They are into practical jokes.
There’s a statue of Airell outside of Vivian’s house. It’s a demon Minotaur and Airell is leaping through the air stabbing him in the throat.

Greyhawk is at war with everybody? More like lots of kingdoms are invading other kingdoms around Greyhawk.  Hacrar wasn’t too clear.  He doesn’t follow stuff like that.

Reunion:
Everyone is very very happy to see Airell. Vivian comes out to hug Airell. The statue is really weird.

Inspiration: Arienh
Session 107  5-18-2024 ML
Reaping 9
We spent all of Starday racing towards the Fist of the Furnace. Sneaking didn’t last long, now we charge.
The army on the ground below us has begun to mobilize as we race towards the giant beast thing/living fortress. Griffins are taking off, elementals are searching for us. I think they know we are coming.
The rock dino is almost a mile long.
Mornie is invisible. 12 hours of misting left.
We attempt to land on the Dino and de-mist. The first wave of baddies has made it to the top and have started to hoist the next set. After a quick debate about scouting, we decide to just race for the fortress. Kellen makes us invisible.
The giant gates are guarded by four giants and locked by runes.
We spread Kellen’s hole and all but Mornie hop in. Mornie (invisible and ghosted) scoops up the hole, dashes for the gates, and ghosts though to a huge hall. She sees hanging from the ceiling a giant construct being put together with all the pieces made of pure adamantine. One eye socket has a big ruby and it is covered in runes similar to those at Abbey Isle. This is probably what Reyna was talking about, and the reason the Fist of the Furnace needs dragon blood.
On the other side of the construct is a massive forge. It is not running, but the whole place is still hot. In a corner there are more fire giants standing guard over something. A woman fire giant in adamantine armor wielding a huge hammer and another fire giant are also somewhere. And another hastily donning armor. Near them is the Fist of the Furnace. Familial resemblance between Fist and other giant.
Fist is talking to a human. The human speaks in common and the Fist in giant but they understand each other. Suspect it’s Feldron?
Mornie gets closer to the giants. Not Feldron.
He says “She is here!!” He’s mad. Hates Arienh. Iuz perhaps? A shard? Ah, it’s Ogdrinal. He can feel Arienh’s presence. All the shards do. The seven wounds tear open and they can feel how far away she is.
As Mornie looks for a place to open the hole as Oggy gets more and more impatient. Then he looks right at the spot where Mornie is. He can sense Mornie because she is “Wreathed in her (Arienh’s) magic.” Because of the wind walk spell that Arienh cast on Mornie.
Giant woman starts up a magic item and now can see Mornie. Mornie throws down the hole and says, “Get out, they can see me, Ogdrinal is here!”
We do know Whitehaus is throught the western doors.
Roll initiative…
Oggy gets bigger. Arienh climbs out, summons fire spirit, teleports everyone else out of the hole. Stuff in the hole is on fire.
We are visible now. Thanks.
Fighting. Fire spirit. Damage. Run. Restrained. Beer. Who makes 14% beer? I like them. Kellen spells big spell. Psychic scream. Unhappy giants. Oggy headed towards Arienh as fast as possible.  MK did something. Attacks Oggy? I’m sure it was great. She won’t read this anyway.
Eladrin summoned. Silvery barbs for MK v Oggy. Mornie shoots Oggy. Then ghosts into the next room and sees Wydhaus sitting on a pile of gold and silver. He seems… off. Drugged? Drunk. On gold?
MK thrown by Oggy. Airell ghosts through the door too and talks to drunk/high/drugged Wydhaus. Airell convinces him to lift Airell to the lock in the door.
Mornie convinces Wydhaus to turn into a human form. Arienh runs for the doors and the spirit cures wounds on Kellen. More fighting.  Fist attacks Kellen.
Fist opens main doors and a half dozen forms flash into existence. Reyna, Tasha, Mordenkainen, and three animals.
Pause to add a Liam.
Mordy casts Mordy’s injunction. Magic items are unattuned. Cool.
Tasha whispers. She charms MK. She’s now mind controlled.
Bear v dreadnaught
Fist yell spell. Arienh, Eladrin, MK go prone as they kneel before the fist.
Mordy cast prismatic wall or something. Then Reyna casts reverse gravity. And immediately drops it. Bitch.  The prismatic wall takes out Mrs. Furnace.
More fighting. Someone casts a wall around the Fist. Mordy I think.
Kellen dies.
Under control of Tasha, MK casts meteor storm on lots of people. Arienh is unconscious.
Tasha did not want MK to catch Oggy in the spell. Interesting.
Airell heals Arienh. Encourages Wydhaus to go help.
Mornie throws out the hole and tells Wydhaus we have a way of getting out of here, but you have to be a person shape. He replies it’s one per short rest. Polymorph time?
Tasha casts wish. Oggy, Tasha, mk, Mordy, reyna, reyna’s pets all vanish.
Arienh brings Kellen back.
Demon MK pops into existence on a forested hill in the middle of the night. There are shapes in the darkness. Towers. Three of them. And then she passes out.
Airell casts Nathir’s mischief on Fist. He passed this turn.
Arienh jumps to the hole.  Wydhaus is invisible, Fist grabbed him.
Kellen pushes a baddy (fist’s son?) into the cage of big damage. He dead now.
 Wydhaus attacks the Fist.
Fist runs away.
Airell collects coins. Then he runs to the hole.
Mornie pew pews. Then jumps in the hole.
 Wydhaus hovers over the hole.
Kellen is surrounded.
Arienh polymorphs Wydhaus into a turtle. An invisible turtle.
Airell uses ghost mage hand to lock the door.
Kellen scoops up the hole and teleports us to the falling star.
The falling star is in the middle of a battle. Cool.

Session 106 - 5-5-2024 - MS
Morning of Earthday, Reaping 6th. Middle of saving the Gnomes.

Mornie starts shooting at the Barrogast. She hits it, but it grabs Margaret by the leg and Margaret faints from the pain. Oh no!

Arienh calls lightning.MK clambers back on the ship and hits zombies with her longbow. The Bleakwalkers start throwing their magical rocks and it sends nightmares into the gnomes and IT crew. Airell tosses a coin at the undead and their primal greed manifests and they start tearing each other apart. Kellen pulls out her astral resonator, which shoots out mist that sucks both Bleakwalkers into another dimension. The gnomes continue to try and help. They’re adorable in their scared determination. The Falling Star then takes out the Barrogast attacking Mornie by decapitating it. Woo hoo!

MK runs over to help the gnomes and pulled out the dead space hamster. “Jeremy!” Uriah shoots into the zombie horde and takes out a bunch. Airell shoots a barrage of arrows on the oncoming Barrogast that got distracted by his owl. The gnomes are trying to help. Mornie heals Margaret, shoots the Barrogast, and Margaret dashes towards the ship. Kellen successfully turns off the power to the engine. It’s time to jury rig the engine!! “Uriah, get that! Put that over there!”

MK mists over to the space hamster and then throws the hamster and Mornie onto the ship. Mornie calms the poor hamster and guides her over to the wheel which isn’t quite fixed. Another Bleakwalker approaches and throws a rock at Uriah. Even more Barrogasts are approaching the ship. Things are looking bleak. Ariell’s owl swoops down on the zombie horde and Airell finishes that horde off. Kellen fixes the engine!! The back of the ship starts to lift, but the front is still in trouble. The gnomes actually hit something and knock one of the Barrogasts down! The last crew continues to try and help Arienh fix the wheel. Uriah starts stabbing at the Barrogast next to him. The ichor sprays on Uriah and he’s unable to evade. The Falling Star continues to barrage the Barrogast. The swarms come closer and start crawling on the ship.

Airell continues to fight the zombies near him to try and free Kellen. Arienh commands the gnomes to go to the right spot and fixes the wheel. Mornie gets Margaret into the wheel and closes the door. The ship starts to rise. Mornie runs over to the lever and the ship rises. She turns her ring and heals Kellen a little. The Falling Star moves over and starts hitting the Barrogast near MK. MK activates her balloon pack to try and get away. Kellen uses her lazer eyes and kills off the zombie horde attacking Airell. The gnome ship flies free.

The ship is the first of its kind. Uriah starts speaking with the captain of the ship. They need to descend soon and fix the ship more. Then, Uriah talks to Airell about misting early and also have the ship notify the king about the horde descending on Grunhalten. The IT Crew agrees to the plan. Kellen leaves her talisman with Dalem. Arienh casts windwalk on the IT Crew. Going slow, the team barely evades the goliaths on griffins.

Make camp

Arienh dream, little hills, she has a vague memory of traveling though here with MK, Zendros, and the half orc. She sees a giant eagle descending and as it lands it transforms into Reyna Yargrov.

Reyna immediately starts talking. She wants Arienh to go to Castle Greyhawk and take care of Zendros. The Fist of the Furnace needs to go north where a trap is waiting for them. We need to not rescue Wydas. Arienh asks about Drawmij. Reyna confirms that Drawmij is dead and that he died because Tasha and Mordenkainen killed him. Reyna reaffirms again that Arienh needs to let Wydas go. Arienh asks what the Fist of the Furnace is trying to do. He is trying to reforge the Ordening of the Giants (the cast system for the giant kingdom, which has been gone for 30,000 years). He’s trying to use the obelisk to do this.

Ogdrennal is working with the Fist of the Furnace. Reyna keeps stating that the giants need to end - eradication. She said that she is handling that part and that Arienh needs to stop and do what she’s telling her to do. Arienh asks who is handling the giant plan. Reyna stated that she is working with Tasha, Mordenkainen and the Valley of the Mage. Drawmij supposedly lacks perspective and didn’t see the big picture of what is happening. Reyna states that Drawmij was a friend and that she’s saddened by this. Arienh asks, “Why Tasha?” Reyna said that you work with the allies you have, not the ones you want. Tasha’s relationship with Iuz is complicated. Tasha is not his ally, but she cannot refuse him. Arienh asks, “Who is casting this spell?” “Mordenkainen.” Reyna says, “I’m trusting you to handle this other obelisk situation. We have no margin for error anymore. The last thing we want is the Fist of the Furnace to suddenly have a moment of clarity.” Ogdrennal encouraged the Fist to plow straightforward and attack the Yeomenry before the Barrowgasts could drain out the army. We do not want the Fist to stop listening to Ogdrennal. The Fist is convinced that he can use Wydas’s blood. If we free Wydas, he will most likely follow us. The blood of Wydas is to be used to create an adamantium structure, because his blood is the blood of creation. This is like the stones at Saltmarsh. This information came from Skerrin, to the vampires, to the giants.

Arienh asked why the Fist was heading north in the beginning if he didn’t know about Wydass. Turns out the Mage from the Valley is a blue dragon by the name of Kymneraph, the gaze of suspicion. He is working with M, T and R to take out the Fist. Tauren originally gave the Mage’s location to the Fist.

Arienh asks about Aeneras Dawnsinger and his role in all of this. Reyna says that he is not a problem and that he is a charlatan. The region of Greater Farand has lost the old faith and he just appointed himself as the Great Druid there. Reyna intends to deal with him at a later time (brought to heel.)

Reyna reiterates that the IT Crew needs to change what they are doing and that she will take steps to deal with the crew if they do not take her advice.

Arienh waited for everyone to wake up and then talked about her dream. The team decides to at least talk to Wydas. Definitely not immediately heading to Greyhawk.

Uriah says that the team should reach the end of the pass by the end of the day. He intends to head back to the king and will not continue with the team. Uriah guides the team safely through the pass. It is late afternoon by the time the pass is cleared and the team arrives at the Earldom of Sterich. It’s quite obvious where the team needs to go…but it’s over 100 miles away.

Kellen has the idea to dream to Wydass and see how he’s doing and his situation. Mornie asks her to talk to Wydass about how he got captured…specifically about Reyna’s role in it. Kellen then realizes she is unable to dream because she’s never met him. Brings up the question, how then could Mordenkainen dream to Arienh?

The next day, the team starts moving along the mountainside. The black dots start moving in the team’s direction. Turning invisible, they continue to head on the path. The scouts do land where the team had been walking, but they’re a mile away. The scouts lose the trail, but it’s obvious that this giant army is a lot more intuitive than just dealing with Hill Giants.

The team continues to walk and heads towards the rivers. In the distance there are specks moving in the sky, but the team is not spotted…they think. At midmorning, the team stops and rests the rest of the day in order to travel at night. The goal is to mist, fast. Kellen turns everyone, but Mornie, invisible (because she has the ring.) Two hours in, something on fire is flying towards the team. Whatever it is has wings. The team decides to fly quickly and not go into hiding. Turns out the item is a Roc that is entirely engulfed in flames. The Roc does attack and hits MK. There are griffin riders there and even though they cannot see in the dark, they dive at the IT Crew. Some of the griffin riders have their eyes change into flaming lava and watch. It’s very disconcerting.

The team hears the thumping of something huge - it must be the beast with a city on its back. It’s a massive eight legged creature with a long neck and long tail. It’s made out of solid stone. This gargantuan beast has its head go up 2,000 feet into the air. Everything is alerted. There is another flying Roc wreathed in flame up above. The team heads right in. A large gong is going off as the team approaches.

Session 105 - 4/28/2024
Godsday, Reaping 4th. Airell is now royalty and they have decent food? MK makes food taste good. IT Crew was approached by a tall, thin man, Uriah Planecrest. (he looks like Snape), part of the king’s rangers. He goes on a long speech how he does not believe the IT Crew’s achievements (he is definitely going to take 50 points from Gryffindor), then he does (he is going to give 50 points to gryffindor?) and shares the finest Apple Whiskey. Lord Ricart Creyhill? (king’s cousin) congratulates Airell for becoming Baron.

The IT crew go to a council meeting in the morning. The same group as the day before. Big map on table, oriented to the IT crew. positioned on Yomenry.
Meeting notes:
Separated hill and stone giants with two different armies.
Reyna and Wydass helped.
Slayed one hill giant lord, Swallowing Maw. Fist of the Furnace was coming down to attack them.
Wanted to make the hill giants eat each other with lack of food in the winter. Fist of the Furnace wanted to make a giant giant army (haha puns). Hill and stone giants with fire giant commanders, not there before.
Fire giant have magic like Fist of the Furnace and is commanding the fire giant commanders from a major distance.
Fire giant commanders were binding the hill giants to basically starve to death. They become undead hill giants. Bleak walkers are stone giants who “embrace the nightmares”, can start bad visions with a single hit from a rock (NOT GOOD!!!).
Sacked the capital of Loftwick, fist of the furnace is improvising? ⅓ of the giants are moving, big boy dirt and rock thing, with fire for blood? Surrounded by griffins and other flying things.
Duke feldron marched to attack the army of the FotF to let the king’s army retreat. Lost all the gunpowder and cannons in the mountain (thanks stone giants).
Reyna and Wydass were captured by the FotF because they were doing recon.
Feldron is off to fight the FotF and the king is protecting the people of the Yomenry (did not trust feldron)
Nothing has basically happened for the last 6 months. Alliance between Feldron, nights of the march, and the army of sterich, also a stalemate on that end too. Wraiths are stopping FotF.
Feldron does not want to take risks to possibly gain an upper hand but the lord of sterin wants to get his land back.
Has not heard from Drawmij for a hot minute. King not happy to find out that Drawmij is dead (*alexa play despacito*).
FotF is a big boy, flaming hand (literally), he is kind of like the personification of the sun (child of Apollo?).
He really really really really wants Wydass back, he’s asking if the IT crew can get him back and if he can borrow the flying ship for now.
Not much information coming from sterin (where FotF is rn).
King trusts Reyna a good chunk.
Tasha and FotF might be on the same side?

Airell gives king the Blind Father with ledgers as proof of some of his crimes. Suggests that he promotes the annoying bishop to deal with him. He admits that he was trained by the Blind father on how to cut purses and run the Thieves guild. King asks if Airell knows anything about Duke Feldrin being conned a while ago. Airell acknowledges it in a round abound way. King doesn’t really care.
Blind father is stealing half of the tithe he’s collecting for the war effort. They think baron Temul will want to go home to deal with it.
Airell has a favor from the king (pls remember).

“Jotendalr” (dm said was very important), giant valley or valley of the giants (big boy valley). The next morning, (the 6th), IT crew takes the Falling Star and travels roughly south towards the pass to the valley of the mage.
They see a pillar of smoke coming from Gnome, not good. Going to go investigate (idk if this is a good idea, SIDE QUEST). It turns out to be not Gnome, but a crashed sky ship. Groups of gnomes are trying to frantically fix the ship and fighting off the giants.

Gnomes ask for help to fix the ship. Kellen takes a look to assess damage. It looks like energy that she uses for her suit and magics and it’s sparking. Mornie tells them to abandon ship and we will get them out. Gnomes refuse and keep trying to fix the ship.

Giants and undead giants are closing in. IT crew parachutes in to help.
Margaret is missing. She is a hamster (SPACE HAMSTER). Her brother is dead. Quintessence engine is sparking. Rotor is bent. (We love Margret the giant hamster)

Action scene:
MK gets under the ship and squats it up. The gnomes grab the spare rotor for repairs.
Mornie goes to find Margaret, spots the tracks.
Kellen looks at the quintessence engine, figures out how it works and that power needs to be shut down.
Arienh casts Plant Growth to slow all the giants down.
Mornie spots another wave of zombies and a barrowghast.
Airell shoots zombies and hides.
Giant shoves a stone at Arienh and misses.
Gnome crews are scared. They are trying to fix the ship, but fail.
Kellen tries to shut off the power and fails too.
Mornie finds Margaret and tries to convince her to go back to the ship. Margaret has a saddle. Mornie gets on it. The visuals are amazing.
MK swapped the rotor.
Scary rocks coming in. Arienh is hit. She is frightened until next turn.
Gnomes shoot.
Uriah tries to help shut down the power and gets electrocuted too.
More monsters are coming in and getting closer.
Falling star shoots and kills one. It smells awful.


Session 104 - 4-20-2024 ML
 Mornie, Airell, and Arienh go racing to find Kellen, MK is still wandering, Kellen wakes up and comes running to find us. Kellen gives us the info from the talk with Drawmij.
Drawmij had snuck into the Valley of the mage. He was killed by Tasha and Mordinkeinin who are working with the mage of the valley.
Fist of the furnace is the hill giant leading the war.
Iuz sent army to destroy the obelisk in greyhawk castle; he really wants to get to Arienh.
We need to kill Iuz.

The shards have been trying to form pacts and control obelisks. Hasn’t worked.
Dramij went to the valley of the mage with Reyna Yargrove, he says the tower of the mage is a trap, don’t go there.

Mornie hears that Drawmij is dead, heads for the house, breaks into a run at the cliffs and dives off. Halfway down she breaks a trinket and goes ghost form. She floats over to a cliff and sits for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a while.

Arienh flies over and sits with her in bird form. After half an hour they go back up the cliff and are let through the wall to head back to the house.

4Kellen and Airell wait for MK at the house. They fill her in when she gets back. When Kellen finds out about the undead giant she goes, “Oh, I need an eyeball!” and goes to fetch it before the head is burned. They are struggling to get the thing to burso Kellen is able to get the eye.

She brings it back to Amanda’s husband who is a glass blower to turn into a thingy to put it on her armor.

We all share info and discuss.

Mornie asks Arienh to take her to the Sea Grove. They go through a ceremony of remembering for Drawmij. Mornie pulls out some items that Drawmij gave her and asks Arienh for a component as well. Arienh lends her the lodestone that Ferrin gave her saying how Drawmij was a lodestone for Mornie.

Mornie stays for a while and Arienh stays near, but unobtrusive.

Meanwhile, the other three are at the house when Eliander arrives. He wants to know if we have a response to his request to go fight in the war. He puts out a chalice for heroes feast as a token of his appreciation.

We also get 150 gp of powdered diamonds, and pay 300 gold for the diamonds plus powdered gems for kellen’s eyeball armor bling.
After Eliander drops hints to Airell, the sword that the Jux family had stolen was mysteriously found and returned. Eliander is happy.

We set off on Reaping 3 to much fanfare. In a flying ship. Arienh has put an 8th level spell in the ship so we can fly over anything. It takes us about a day to get to Long Spear.

Mornie check in with Sorrel who says they will follow her into battle if need be.

Day 2 - Sorrel directs our attention to groups of humans accompanied by giants. The zombie hill giants move weirdly and have stone and metal armor. The zombie people are gross. They follow the hill giants who are herded by stone giants.

Skill challenge to get passed the giants

Mornie - helping with sails and rigging, Acrobatics - PASS 1
Airell - shoots arrows, attack - FAIL 1

Falling star - 33 damage

Arienh - helping Sorrel navigate, navigators tools - PASS 2
MK - Swatting boulders, strength - PASS 3 (but.. Wait… how??)
Kellen - major image a dragon, spell - PASS 4
Arienh - Call lightning, spell - PASS 5
Mornie - motivation of the new sailors, persuasion - PASS 6
MK - Sail adjustments, acrobatics - PASS 7
Kellen - arcane eye to find giant leaders, insight - PASS 8
Airell - Boulder spotting, perception - PASS 9
MK - a… decoy? performance - FAIL 2

Falling star- 40 damage, 16 damage to 1 crew
Brief visions from the magic trailing the rock that hit
	Mornie: when NotRedHead locked her frozen
 	Arienh: saltmarsh beach, crazy time, Iuz standing before her, sword in her hand, the whole world destroyed
	Airell: on the streets as a pickpocket, back to being a forgotten, unimportant kid

Mornie: avoiding the giant that threw the magic stone, navigators tools - PASS 10
Airell - Disentagles ropes from MK antics, acrobatics - PASS 11
Arienh - Scout path around mountain peaks, survival - PASS 12

MK writes a song to celebrate.

The next morning we arrive at Longspear. Kellen sees the kings standard on the larger island. There are also an army of Pelor. Seems to be an alliance, not an occupation.
We land the ship in the river. We are noticed. Mornie announces us via megasword. The people go from panicked to excited.

The king greets us, is super happy, gives us his tent, says get settled and then we will talk before dinner.

MK’s brother Arn runs up and gives MK a big hug. MK’s uncle is weirded out by her.

Arienh insights the king (he seems honest) and is generally suspicious of everyone knowing that Iuz and the shards are involved in a lot of what is happening in these parts.

Arn tells MK that Grunhalten is destroyed and their father is dead. Last year the barrowgasts (living dead hill giants) came out of the little hills and overran the valley. Duke Feldran saved them, and while very brave, is still a dick who cares first for his own glory. He did save the king. He’s not here right now, off fighting elsewhere.

The people who are killed fighting the dead giants become undead themselves so the people have had to fight their own people, including MK’s dad whom Arn had to “put to rest.”

Arn asks what MK has been up to and she describes the fight with the shard of Iuz. Then the whole becoming a whale thing.

We get to the tent and MK wants to tell Arn something important and doesn’t want to be scryed on so they go in the portable hole. MK tells him that if she falls in battle she will come back as a demon and will not be on his side. The kid has some experience with this (his dad) and just says seriously, “Ok.” MK gives him a gold pin.

We rest for a bit, then the herald, Carden, comes to get us. He takes us to the map room where the king and several others are studying maps and ledgers. There is Lord Galend de Ross, Richart baron of greyhill (king’s cousin), Bogdon the wizard, an arch druid (Tolaith kashk) whom Arienh and MK have met, and a high ranking noble Pelorian (Bishop of Pelor, formerly Bishop of Gradsul), crazy monocle guy Anton Bearwith me because my name is weird Freefockter, and sir Eddock Amberhill.

Reyna was captured last year apparently. She and whitehaus were captured last year by the fist of the furnace. (Dramij said he was with Reyna just a few weeks ago. So something doesn’t add up.)

King Kimbertos wants to reward us now and says IT are lords of a new domain. Others on the council like, “They are mercenaries, what the heck?”. The king says “No they aren’t, they have fought for Keoland and have now come to our aid.”

Mornie accepts for us. The council leaves and we are left alone with the herald.

Whatever we say in front of the Bishop will go straight to Lord Feldron. He is desperate to return to the position in Gradsul he was ousted from by the Blind Father.

If we accept:
We get gold (20,000 gp per year) and the saltmarsh debt to us
We are in charge of keeping our land safe
Arbitrate all disputes, final word
Baron regent gets to be on council
3 months service to the king per year

Ok we accept. Airell is the baron regent of the Duvont. He signs with the signet ring he has had as his minor item since the beginning of the campaign.

We are seated at the feast, have just enough time to warn Sorrel what is coming, and the king enters. He gives a kingly speech about us and names us lords and Barons. Airell pledges fealty.






Session 103 - 2-18-2024 MS
Report to Drawmij by Mornie

Sunday, the second of Planting. Falling Star leaves the Spindrift Isles heading towards Pontylver to meet up with Airell and me. Arienh has been training new acolytes (including Yenellas and Kosima) while MK has been receiving religion instruction. The Falling Star has been almost completely repaired and the crew is ready to head home.

At some point when we were in Pontylver, Airell received a dream from the people of Nalnaliras and they asked him to take them to Greyhawk. Such a strange request and we are considering doing it. I did ask Airell the purpose behind wanting to go to Greyhawk and he said it was because the Golden Dragon told them to come and help him.

At Growfest, Arienh anointed ten new druids.  Mostly elves, but also including Cosima.  Growfest is very special to the Old Faith.

Sohral wants to speak to the IT crew as we leave port from Pontylver. The Falling Star crew needs downtime once we get back to Saltmarsh. The goal is to drop people off at Greyhawk and send the Falling Star back home. We head to the people of Nalnaliras by going through the Tilvanot Straight.  The trip to the island was uneventful.

We refill our supplies at the island and 107 gold dragonborn come onto the ship, 99 of those are soldiers and 8 “listeners”. They do a strange singing/stomping ritual as we are leaving the island. We then see the storm heading towards us again, very fast. As the storm hits our ship, the listeners keep doing their chant and the Elder Tempest is absorbed into the prow. Somehow the ship starts flying into the sky and four of the listeners collapse onto the deck and are very still. They died performing this ritual. We leave the storm behind and see it dissipate. Oh my. We literally have a flying ship.

Airell tells us that these Dragonborn are in their end times. Their god/creator has called them to go back to Greyhawk. I walk over to Kellen and start trying to convince her to talk to Zagyg. She’s totally given up. There’s no getting her to snap out of this funk she has put herself in. I try to talk to her, I try hugging her, but it’s like talking to a wall. I’m no therapist. I don’t know how to deal with this. I fear we are losing Kellen.

The next week is spent going over how to maneuver the ship. The crew is first freaked out by these changes, but Sohral runs them through their paces and tests everything out to see what can work and what doesn’t. It works and we see that the ship has some great capabilities now.

We decide to fly directly to Castle Greyhawk, understanding that there will be those who see us. There are definitely people who are scared of us flying over them, but it is what it is. I reach out to you, Drawmij, to let you know that we have a flying ship. You replied, “Ship could be useful, I’m in the west with Reyna Yargrove. Iuz’s forces at Castle Greyhawk. Do you have a situation report for Greyhawk city?” I have to wait to reply. Sending stones, very useful, but limited at the same time.

When we get back together as a group, Arienh clarifies that she has been scrying on Xendros and MK expresses shock. Arienh is irritated with MK as she has told her before about scrying on Xendros. After taking a big breath, Arienh explains that Xendros is back in Castle Greyhawk and she was in the tower that we were in. Xendros did reveal to us about Waldorf being a shard, and we know that Xendros can see invisibility now.

When we get to Castle Greyhawk, it is completely empty of anyone. The old elven camp is in complete ruins with dead bodies there. Airell investigates the area and sees that the battle took place from something that came from inside the towers. The fight is very, very old…probably a year ago.

We wait on site for about a day. The dragonborn know that they are not going down the central tower. We had spent days giving them information about the castle itself so we hope that they know what they need to do. Airell and MK want to go into the towers, but the rest of us say no, we need to get he crew back to Saltmarsh.

I convey back to the team what you have shared to me in some of our past conversations: Drawmij confirms that he has followed Mordenkainen’s trail to the region west of Keoland, the Grand Duchy of Geoff.  This is north of the current Giant War, but Dramij doesn’t think this is a coincidence.

Drawmij can’t speak more than that.  Between the limited word count of the sending and Mordenkainen being paranoid enough to have enchantments that activate when his name is said too many times, Drawmij keeps it vague.

What you do know is that Drawmij is traveling incognito in the region, using mundane investigative methods.  The remnant of Drawmij’s ring of spies is light in the ground in this region.  He had a few agents in the Duchy of Geoff purely to keep tabs on the Valley of the Mage, which is how Drawmij got a lead in the first place.

In his final communications with you, Drawmij instructs you to make your way (makingyourway!) to the western Sheldomar Valley once you have returned home and settled in.  Find wherever King Kimbertos Scotti is and go there.  Drawmij will either rendezvous with you or send directions for where to go next.

We fly back to Saltmarsh, going a more circuitous route so as to avoid freaking out the same people as before. We did have to land for a little while when some hurricane storms came through. It takes us two weeks to fly from Hardbee down to Saltmarsh. We finally get back to Saltmarsh. I announce to the entire town that we have returned and are greeted with cheers of joy. We are toying with the idea of changing the name to Rising Star. The town shuts down for a week to celebrate. It was glorious.

The town council rushes to meet us and there are some new faces. Gilar Kenklestein, Tilan Havensea (the abbot of the hospital of Pelor), and Winston (the owner of the general store.) Tilan and Winston…that entire election was a situation. Mafera gives Arienh a new tour of the grove and an arch was built for Gedik.

I then received the cured Oni skin and it was aged to a very dark burgundy. Turns out the process led to Kiorna having strange dreams/visions. She was happy to get rid of it. I ask about Anders, and find out he has been around town, but not as hated as before. Some progress.

Sohral wants to recruit and give the crew a month off for Richfest. We agree. Gellen is very happy to have the Falling Star back and is a little put out that he has to wait until after Richfest. Turns out Gellen has a lot of hostility towards Tilan. Tilan was appointed by Eliander….huh. Despite Yusgrolir’s previous hostility, there has been no conflict with them at all. The Styles are continuing to produce things.

Eliander, the Baron of Seaton, rides into town with an entourage of 30 horsemen, including Kiara Shadowbreaker and Kellen’s family. He stays at the keep on the marsh and doesn’t send any advance word that he’s coming.

Kellen’s family pops in to see her and it’s obvious that Kellen is not okay. Kellen’s family surrounds her and gives her an opportunity to talk about what happened.

Airell and I are at the hospital and I confront Anders. Anders didn’t go to Eliander like I originally asked him and I lost it a little. Airell wingmans me and helps me see that Anders is scared of me. We agree to do drinks the next evening and then hear that Eliander is in town. How am I going to deal with this?

As we walk towards our house we meet up with Arienh who is also on her way back from the Sea Grove.

MK is out on the town.

When Airell, Arienh,and I head into the keep and see that a few of the council members are there to greet Eliander. He’s a little rough for wear. We greet him and Kiara - it’s great to see them. He needs to speak with us, urgently. Crap.

He first talks us up about the fact that the Jux family was complaining that a family heirloom was stolen from their home at the teleportation circle. Hmmm…. It was a weapon. He said that it would be considered as a personal favor to him for it to be returned. Eliander believes that MK stole it. Someone was sent to go and fetch MK.

While waiting for MK, Eliander’s herald brings me a letter from Duke Lushan of Gradsul. A favor is being asked of Eliander, that he detain Airell, MK, Kellen if they are within his reach. It’s a warrant. The letter arrived several months ago. Eliander says that he’s pretty sure that Gellan has one as well. This letter has no jurisdiction here as Saltmarsh is a free city. Eliander is going to force Gellan’s hand and to force him to pick a side. Eliander then tells us that the letter isn’t the reason why he’s here.

He asks Kiara to lead us into another room. Kiara opens the crate, which contains a rotted hill giant’s head. The skin itself is gray, which is not normal for that species. Arienh asks what is wrong with the giant, including the fact that the blood coming from it is a black sludge. The eyes are moving and the mouth is moving. Arienh asks again what is wrong with it. Kiara found the entire giant on the edge of her land. They decapitated it and tried to investigate the source. Stories of it and other things along the Longspear trail have been spreading. She made it to the border of the Yeomanry stating that undead giants have been seen in the area. Arienh sends a message to Klee asking for her to let her know about any info, and to keep it short. Klee said, “HI!  Yeah, I told you before, remember?  Grun Halten was destroyed.  Things got bad around here.  That’s why I can use bombs whenever I want n–” Arienh turns to me and says, “Tomorrow, remind me to tell Klee to give the stone to someone else.”

I then stop the conversation and tell them that the head needs to be burned. We have no idea what info has been conveyed to whatever is controlling the giant. Eliander agrees to it and we agree to convene at Eliander’s house at sunset.

Airell, Arienh and I head back to alert Amanda Amber (fuck it, that’s her name now) that Eliander and 30 people are coming to eat.

At this point of the report, I realize that you, Drawmij, are never going to read this. I’ll keep writing it to you, my mentor, to let everyone know how you gave your life to give us this information.

Back at the house, Kellen is still talking with her parents. She then faints. From Kellen:

Kellen has a vision and she’s standing at the base of the Barrier Peaks. There is no movement or sound where she is. Drawmij is standing there as she turns around. He tells her he is sorry to interrupt whatever she is doing. He says that he is going to be dead soon. Mordenkainen and Tasha are closing in on his location. He has his final orders for Mornie - head to the valley of the Mage, investigate why Mordenkainen and Tasha are working with the mage who rules there and not the Fist of the Furnace. Whatever happens, do not let the obelisk be destroyed.

Drawmij tells her that he’s in the Valley of the Mage and is there with Reyna. She’s involved with the giant war and the Fist of the Furnace. They snuck in there to try to find out the connection. Do not go to the mage’s tower - it’s a trap.

Everything is connected - the Scarlet Brotherhood, the kraken, the circle of eight, etc. It’s a collection of plans between the alliance of Iuz and the four shards (originally five). Mordenkainen is working with Tasha and she’s the mother of Iuz. Mordenkainen destroyed the circle to keep Bigby’s nature secret. Mordenkainen is obsessed with the notion of balance and Drawmij theorizes that he thinks that working with Iuz is going to restore balance.

They have the exact same plan as when they invaded Castle Greyhawk. Iuz is obsessed with strength and he wants to use the obelisk to undo him being split. The shards are working together, except for Bigby’s and MK’s. Ogdrennal, Waldorf, Relhannar, and Towren are the four shards working together.

Iuz thought that there was an artifact that could control the obelisk. Turns out the artifact is actually the standing stones at Saltmarsh. If enough of the obelisks are destroyed, that power could reforge Iuz into one once again.

The most urgent thing is the giant war. All of the shards got together and realized that together they could stand up against Iuz. The deal was they would try to carry out Iuz’s plan, but be smarter about it. The destruction of Rauxes was a failed attempt to become a herald (failure was the plan by the Shards:  each failure destroys an obelisk). Bigby wanting to reveal this to the Circle of Eight is most likely the reason why Mordenkainen killed the Circle of Eight.

Baedron convinced the Scarlet Brotherhood to read the grimoire by using his spy network and planting doubts within the Watchers, convincing them to take the Grimoire from their vaults and attempt where the Suloise Imperium had failed.

Drawmij tells Kellen that the two things that have helped the world have been Arienh rejecting the pact and Kellen finding the grimoire. He tells Kellen that there are millions of people who are living and able to survive because of her.

Venerandris is dead. He was going to try to absorb the Bigby shard, but that didn’t happen (because Mordenkainen didn’t kill Bigby). The other shards hunted him down and killed him. That’s why the shard went to MK’s clone. The good news is that because of everything the IT crew has done, Iuz and the four are scrambling. The giant war is a result of that.

The Fist of the Furnace has accomplished one or two parts of the ritual. It is heading north to finish it. Instead, the goal is the Valley of the Mage. Tasha and Mordenkained seem to be working with the mage instead of the Fist, which is confusing.

Something has changed in this past year. Iuz is losing patience. He sent armies into the Greyhawk Castle from below to get the obelisk. What is different is this is straightforward instead of subtle. Waldorf was trying hard to conceal what was happening.

Kellen tells him that we dropped off the dragon born to help the Golden Dragon there. It’s bad that a 1,000 year old dragon is calling in for help.

Drawmij said that we need to come to the west. We need to handle the issue in the valley. The armies led by the shards are starting to invade the south into the Greyhawk region. This is not a subtle fight anymore.

Iuz has definitely changed his focus and it’s on Arienh, the first betrayer.

Drawmij tells her that she and the IT crew are the best chance for the world and to kill Iuz. Drawmij asks her to convey to Mornie: I’m sorry for what Nenredhe did, both before and after. He truly did not know and wouldn’t have approved. She was truly an exceptional agent and truly a wonderful human being.

He tells Kellen that she’s the right person for the job. Kellen then says, “I hope that Airell finds you with that spell.”

Kellen wakes up in her mother’s arms. Then runs out.

Inspiration:
Session 102 - 2-4-2024 LA
It’s still 9am. The rift is diminished.
MK notices one of the mobs starting to regain consciousness, screeches and leaps at her.
Run away too too to tooo. Dash, fly under water, dodge, attack, fireball. It’s successful at the end.

Airell and Arienh jump on the broom. Mornie goes into ghost levitation.
Small group of creatures coming out of the water too, tackles everyone and we need to fight through. Cosima and Dalem go down again and fall in the water. Eladrin stays at the rear to distract. He falls and goes back into Arienh’s staff.
MK gets hit, loses concentration and people fall. Kellen teleports into Arienh on the broom.
MK recasts Fly on her and Dalem. They take Cosima and Tyran. Escape to mist.

Airell goes on a side mission yet again. He goes to pick up the tattoo artist who is unresponsive and just stares at the dirt. Airell has to cast Suggestion to get him out of it.

Jasdirzoud’s real story:
	He really wanted to find the gate of glass - that part is true. He was coming back to the Firewatch Isle with expeditions, and his people were corrupted and turned into the sea creatures. He would have a teleport with him so he alone could escape, forget about it and do it all over again. This was his 3rd time here.

So good news for everyone - he has a teleport out of this place to Pontylver, so maelstrom is not an issue.
Good news for Airell - Jasdirzoud is very grateful and will do his tattoo. Mediocre news for Airell - it costs more money than he has.

Next stop is Lof Ospyr island. Arienh finds a good spot in the mountains. MK passes out for a bit, but wakes up in about an hour and is no longer smoking. She’s a bit jumpy and really didn’t like being a whale. Arienh also finds a tree in case there’s a need to return later.

Bad news for Kellen - she is completely out, staring at the distance and not interacting. Arienh tries to talk to her, but doesn’t get much.

Mornie calls Sohrel. She tells her to head to Pontylver and to meet at the same place. Sohrel says it will take 5 days. Coraline collapsed, woke up crying with joy, and the elves stopped chasing them.

Teleport to Pontylver. It leads to a hidden illegal room in Andorann Villa in Pontylver. This is the area where mages hangout and do their not-so-legal stuff. It’s a cute place, part library part coffee house.

Jasdirzoud recommends staying in Uphill Tavern and Inn. Most inconspicuous. He needs to spend some time seeing how other people of his are affected.
The Inn is huge and has a signature dinner with lots of cooked meats. The owner is Tornonn Chestflayer, bugbear.
Some healing going on to recover lost stats. Arienh restores Mornie first. MK is still down 3 Cha, and her demon is down 4 Con.

Next morning Airell goes to the World Wide Emporium  to start a new scheme. He watches the traffic and how things are moved. He follows a couple of customers. They go to one of 3 places - the docks, the disreputable places and the rich section. this place is highly over policed, there’s city watch with a priest of Hextor posted there.

Mornie goes shopping at Solnar Expedition Outfitters to pick up new travel clothes. They have a catalog for magic items. They can help people to register with a guild, but it’s a time intensive process and includes an interview with the censors. They have the spell that makes you tell the truth. Failure to answer their questions is punishable with imprisonment.
Mornie stocks up on some regular items.

Jasdirzoud finds Airell. The tattoo will take 5 months if he works non stop. Airell is eager to start, but needs to find money to fund it.
Arienh talks to Kellen and actually cheers her up a bit.
Falling Star arrives on schedule.

The leaders of the People of the Testing asked the IT crew to come to them through the maelstrom to talk to them. They want to know what happened. It’s a huge deal. Jasdirzoud tags along.
Their “capitol” is Radiant Peak. It’s built into a mountain with a very pretty waterfall that feeds the lake. Lots of elves walking around looking shocked.
The meeting is at the very top of the peak. The elves are led by the triarchs Elor, Galarin and Nemsea. It’s been 1000 years since anyone but elves entered this place. The last human was Landor.
Mornie tells them the story of what happened and how IT crew closed the rift and undid the madness. Elves are very grateful. The madness spread even to their leaders.
Jasdirzoud negotiates for his people to return to the islands and elves agree.
Quarion is accepted as a new member of the People of the Testing.
Elves offer IT crew to stay for as long as they need, and to repair the Falling Star. IT crew stays. Airell starts getting his tattoo.

Inspiration: Arienh

Session 101 - 1-20-2024 ML
Annd, fight!!
Kellen has just major imaged a Skothga. We are surrounded by “scum” creatures. Weird shadow creature appears - Syrgaul.
Mornie turns to the npcs and says, “It’s time! Do it now!” She passes the first arcana check. Then she crushes a trinket and goes ghost.
Syrgaul commands his servants and the Scum surge towards us and the fake Skothga.
MK does some attacking. Syrgaul teleports right next to us.
 Kellen fails an INT save, loses Skothga, and then polymorphs MK into a 90 ft whale. She opens her whale mouth and sucks us all in along with the three scum who are next to us.
Tiran fails to unalive himself. Scum attack the whale and do a little damage.
Wildfire spirit, Airell, and Kellen attacked by scum.
Dalem and Cosima delete themselves, Arienh revives Tiran, more fighting.
 Mornie passes another arcana check!
Arienh revivifies Cosima. Magic weirdness happens. Ooze radiates out and she casts grease centered on herself.
Syrgaul does weird tentacles to MKwhale and she loses 3 from her charisma.
MKwhale swings it’s tail at Syrgaul.
More crab like creatures descend from above and attack MKWhale.
Lots of scum attacks. Whale is dead.
We finally kill a skum, Mornie takes the soul, arienh gets a flame to potentially heal.
Tiren and cosima take damage and both are unconscious.
Kellen’s armor shatters. She passes the third arcana check! Dalem is revivified by the eladrin.
Tiren is brought back to consciousness by Mornie casting healing word. She passes the first check of the second round! Arienh fails an INT save and can’t do any magic until the end of her turn.
More fighting.
Kellen transfigures a bunch of household objects and passes the second check!
More fighting.
Mornie goes for the metal thing inside Syrgaul. She pulls it out! It’s a crown thing, twisted and corroded with a drop of iridescent bronze shadow inside. It’s what’s connected to the tentacle things on Airell and MK.
MK fights a bunch.
Technicolor jellyfish light up the sea. Wildfire spirit is gone.
The creatures that now swim up have feet that would make the prints Arienh saw in the sand at the island.
Arienh casts mass cure wounds and passes the 3rd check. On to part three of the ritual.
More fighting.
Demon MK casts sunburst and catches a bunch of baddies.
More fighting.
MK demon disintegrates the chull.
Kellen makes the first save of the third part of the ritual and passes? More fighting, Kellen makes another check. Pass!
Arienh says “I chose life!” and casts aura of life, passing the final check!
The grimoire begins to dissolve in Kellen’s hands. As the last page dissolves the rift flashes open again and opens like an eye. We all see the face of thurazdun in it. It looks at us and then looks away as though recoiling from what it sees and behind it is a vast nothing. Arienh recognizes it from her visions. The vast nothingness. We can see in the nothing the planes floating there. The prime material, the feywild, the shadowfell, etc. All the worlds that formed out of this nothingness. We see a cosmic history playing out. Gods, elemental warriors, war, the rod of black stone broken into seven pieces, each bound around a tear in reality, a ceasefire. All of history in a split second. A lendorian man with a crown standing next to a twin who refuses something. The man, Syrgual is dragged below the water as the ritual fails.
Syrgual begins to tear apart, fade and collapse. The rift closes. The creatures around us are all stunned for a moment. They begin to twitch and regain their senses…
Notes: Tiran is unconscious and cosima is dead. MK will be demon for an hour, then go unconscious for a while with 1 hp. The remnant of the grimoire are still in Kellen’s hands. She fires magic missiles at it to get rid of it. “Baby shark do do do do do do…” and the remnants are torn into tiny pieces.
Session 100 - 1-6-2024 MS
Early morning, Starday, Patchwall 1. We are in Kellen’s domain room…it’s very comfortable. Great opportunity for reading. I went through the books when everyone else went to sleep. It became obvious that these Brotherhood magicians that they were testing the effects of magic around the rift. This also was being tested at Abbey Isle. When magic was cast at Abbey Isle, it would directly affect the rift as well (and most likely the other obelisk locations.) Casting at Firewall did not affect Abbey Isle. There are hundreds and hundreds of creatures guarding the rift. The more powerful the magic, the more likely to produce a result - arcane magic only. Additionally, the creatures around the rift were more active when magic was cast.

Jazr-azud attacks me out of a sound asleep. It was some sort of acid and burned me very badly. I scramble out of the way and MK and Kellen try to hold him down. Thank goodness Arienh cast a healing spell on me. It was a brutal spell. Turns out Jazr-azud has a long, mahogany staff with a hummingbird on it. He tried apologizing to me.

Then he got upset, understandably, about his people. He stated that we should have listened to him. MK and Kellen got irritated with him. He got up and left. Airell followed even after Kellen said not to. Airell ignored her. Kellen got visibly upset and wanted to do the ritual immediately. We had a disagreement about that.

After catching up to Jazr-azud, Airell told him that we saw the gate of glass. Jazr-azud gets upset then because it turns out we saw the city of glass, but not the gate. Airell hands back Jazr-azud his tools and wizard book. They talk a bit and Airell convinces Jazr-azud that it would be better for him to wait until after we finish our activity.

Airell comes back and tells us that Jazr-azud is leaving. He wanted Arienh to cast “Greater Restoration” on him. We are upset over Jazr-azud’s claims and discuss it. I heal up a bit taking a potion of Supreme healing - but it wasn’t enough to get me up to full health.

I do feel obligated to show Jazr-azud the last entry from the journal to explain what has happened to his people as a result of the rift. Arienh joins me as we go up to the mountaintop where he climbed. He was receptive to the information about how his people went mad. After he heard the journal entry, he was much more understanding. He mentioned that he is very well traveled and even talked to Mordenkanin in a city with blue walls, on the peninsula of Keoland, seven years ago. (This is the City of Blue - in the Pomarsh). Arienh tells him that if he’s still on the island after we return, she will heal him. He doesn’t agree to it, and just gets angry. He’s very irritated with us for not healing him and we leave.

After joining up with the rest of the crew, we agree to get started on the ritual. Arienh starts casting a spell using her staff and it is very reminiscent of the Fey Wild. There was an elf that was there and when the spell ends, the elf remains. It is an Eladrin and it is bonded to Arienh.

Arienh takes Airell’s broom and goes back up to Jazr-azud. She asks if the deal is still valid - Greater Restoration for the tattoo. He agrees. She has the Eladrin heal him, takes off, but then realizes that she needs to ask him where she will be able to find him. He says he will be around for about a day, he thinks.

Kellen gives a pep talk to the three tributes thanking them for their service. I give my guns and powder (except for the weapon of warning) to Arienh to hold. Guns + water = no worky. Kellen gives her talisman to Arienh. Arienh gave Airell the wand of magic missiles.

Reminder of the job:
Mist over to the spot.
Sink to the bottom.
Sacrifice the three rituals and bring them back. (Arienh will cast the three revivify.) (This is a skill challenge.) Arcana check and an action.The arcana check has to be by someone who read from the book - it will be me. The revivify can be cast by anyone - Arienh will do all of these. We have a backup plan just in case.
Cast three spells that create someone or heal. These have to be done by those who read from the book. Arienh and Kellen will do this.
The last part has to be rejecting the Chained Oblivion - a contest of wills. Kellen is going to do that.

We discuss and decide that Arienh will turn into a shark and take Kosima and Tiran down. Dalem will go with Kellen in her armor.

We mist and head to the rift. (about 10 minutes)

We de-mist and Kellen puts on her armor and takes Dalem down. Arienh turns into an octopus and grabs the other two. The rest of us swim down. There is a definite lack of marine life, which is very creepy. The pressure is quite intense. We shrug it off…mostly and keep sinking to the bottom. The ocean floor has a bunch of crevices from the lava flows and there are things moving down there, and heading our way.

Kellen casts “Major Image” of Sgothgah over to the left of us. It’s making noises just like we remember from fighting it. I take the sword and yell, “Ah! It’s Sgothgah!” (Note: Any creatures in the combat within 60 ft have to make Wisdom saving throws due to the Eladrin.) Arienh continues to swim with the two she’s carrying. Airell casts “shadow blade (and upcasts it)” and “mirror image.” MK activates her armor. There are gelatinous creatures who have humanoid bodies with tentacles. We see that many of the approaching creatures are immune to the Eladrin’s charm. Oh crap.

Note: the NPCs can take their own lives.

Inspiration: Mornie

Session 99. 12-19-2023 LA
Just before dusk Freeday Brewfest 7. Surrounded by crazy skin wearing elves.
Arienh tries to summon Owls, Elf mage counterspells.
MK Misty steps. Purple black shimmer coalesces around her. Cold air seeps into her lungs and she feels crunching snow underfoot. She never felt snow before, but she remembers this. She’s standing next to a giant woman with pale skin and dark hair. She realizes that it’s not the woman who is big, it’s MK is a kid. And she’s a boy no older than 8. He has dark skin that stands out. The woman is leading to a bank of a fast flowing river where a canoe is tied. She steps in and you push off, despite being 8, and row two of you to the river of that river. The current takes the boat and heads to a waterfall. Ygwilliw hold a tome of spells that she found you reading. She starts to talk to you in a very soft voice, almost monotone. For you and me magic isn’t something you learn, it’s something you have to discover to conquer. Every bit of power is already inside of you and it begins with wanting it more than anything else. You realize your mother doesn’t love you. You are the price for a deal she made with Graz’zt. She hands you the book, speaks a word and with a mist disapears. Immediately you’re carried past her into the waterfall. You realize this is not the first time you’ve done this. You know you can survive this fall, but it will hurt. You’re shaking and trying to force the magic, you feel a burning hatred inside you and fear for the upcoming pain. And then you feel shame for being afraid. In that moment you want to be ashore so that you can wrap your hands around her throat and get the life from her, to hear the death rattle. You see the purple black mist around you, the land scape changes. Ygwilliw is on the shore, hunched old woman. You’re on the shore, standing ankle deep in the cold water. She watches you as the canoe falls and shatters.
Vision switches and MK is on top of the Elf Wizard. He is also kinda surprised. She hits him for 60 hp.
Archers shoot.
Airell grabs Kellen and dimension doors to the mage. Summons spiritual weapon.
MK hit with opportunity attack, Mage Misty Steps away. Airell attacked.
Archers are wearing mithril half plate. One shoots at Kellen, lightning shoots. They keep shooting magic arrow. MK glimpse into the Feywild. She wildly swings.
Arienh summons Wild Fire spirit. Wizard catches fire. The warriors slash into it.
Mornie shoots an archer and necrotic damage another one. She stabs the commander.
Elf casts Banishment on MK and she dissapears.
Kellen takes Airell and Thundersteps away to catch the mage.
The captain runs to Kellen, weirdly focused on her specifically.
Mornie shoots, then sinks down into the ground and dashes to the rest of the party. Archers shoot Mornie. Airell attacks the mage and MK comes back. No one is around her as her blindness falls.
Arienh shouts that there’s something in the water. Arienh chucks the flame at the mage and kills him.
Kellen casts suggestion on the captain telling him to stand down. He grabs the mage and drags him away. Soldiers protect them.

Something big bursts out of the water. Frog like giant creature. Tongue hits a back of an archer and they are pulled down.
Attacks Mornie couple of times, misses and dives back down. Mornie runs away and goes invisible.
Kellen tries to fire inside the pond and fails miserably.
Arienh sent the sacrifice crew to find landoreans.
Airell holds action with the bow for the big scary thing.
The monster is popping up again, Mornie shots it.  Airell shots it.
Monster tries to tongue Kellen, but kinds no purchase. It tries to tentacle Mornie and Kellen and fails.
Kellen runs away.
The creature looks pretty badly hurt.
We flee into the jungle. After some time we spot the rocky hill rising up ahead. We stealth through. MK is out of it.
The sun is starting to set. We see birds circling around some clouds. The clouds look sad. Elves killed all the landoreans. Cosima asks how they knew where we would land. We go to check the camp. There are maps, lithographs and journals.
Fluffernutter and sticky bomb to make a grave and bury the bodies.
Cloud and go back.
Jaziradud is asleep when we get back. Arienh decides to cast Augury to see if it is a good idea for us to rest the night on the isle. Augury said that we shouldn’t stay the night.
Kellen casts Demiplane in the cellar in the house. MK carries J there. It’s the rainbow shark room. Airell casts Alarm on the door to the kitchen and on the trap door. Everyone will get a mental alert when they go off.
Short rest. Airell identifies six more items. Mornie listens to Zunraurdir after grabbing book 16 which covers events from 564. 564 is when the Brotherhood did the ritual that caused Arienh’s family to die and Sgothgah to be summoned. He gives info regarding the erratic nature of casting magic and that the rift has fluctuations in its actions/behaviors. He states that “their behavior” continues to be erratic. The creatures protecting the rift are hostile and also erratic. He mentions that when a person summons food that rainbow shapes showed up around them. When a person casts Mold Earth that it became a collection of amoeba mouths that try to attack. It’s very clear that he’s talking in code.
He stated that he is aware that the ritual went wrong (the one against Arienh’s family.) There was a pulse of light radiating out from the rift. Within the light, people experience a bunch of light strands and then a great nothingness. He was visited by the Watcher and she interrogated him about the failure of the ritual and what did he do to it.
Mornie asks Kellen to put all of the Firewatch journals in the portable hole. She went through the journals looking for important information.

Session 98. 12-3-2023
Zunraurdir’s journal speaks, giving a bunch of Z’s titles. He gives a summary of recent events (for him). They are on the Island under the guise of refugees, worshipers of someone (just like Abby Isle only a different god). They are really here to investigate the rift.
Airell asks if Mornie and Kellen got all the loot from the cove (yes) and gives Mornie the medallion to unlock all the journals.
We discuss the drag marks and web footprints (Arienh doesn’t recognize the creature). When should we do the ritual? Now? After a short rest? Tiren is tired. Kellen doesn’t care, just wants to get it over with. We argue. Kellen doesn’t want to spend more time here on crazy island, the NPCs are worn out and may not survive the trip to the rift and we will have to move super slow.
Setting that aside, we start talking logistics: teleporting, spells, timing, depth, etc.
Meanwhile Airell detects magic on all the stuff from the cove and it all glows.
Kellen runs off in tears after all the arguing saying, “I didn’t want to kill anyone!” Perhaps referring to the original reading of the stupid grimoire we are trying to destroy and all the issues it has caused. Mornie follows to have a heart to heart and a gives a restorative hug (her specialty). She also convinces Kellen to let the NPCs rest.
Meanwhile Tattoo Guy wakes up and asks who we are. Airell tells him and Guy asks if Anthala Quen sent us. Uh, no, he is not our biggest fan. Although he did give Airell Guy’s name. Guy says we have that in common (not being liked by AQ).
Guy tells us:
- The creatures who did the massacring to the people here (his friends) were from the sea.
- 10 years ago the elves came and killed the Lendorians. His group are those that survived.
- The Elves wear his people’s faces as masks and armor.
- He and his crew were looking for the Gate of Glass and were attacked by elves who tortured his people to find out where the rest were.
- Part of the crew was here on this island until the sea creatures killed them (Guy is the only survivor).
- The rest of the crew is on FireWater Island, 12 miles from here.
- If we rescue his friends he will give Airell a tattoo, which Airell has been researching and looking for since forever ago.
Kellen says “No side quests” but Airell wants to help them.
We decide Mornie and Arienh will go scout the island as mist since we are the most rested of the group. Airell gives Mornie the talisman from Kellen. Guy gives us instructions on how to find his friends.
Mornie and Arienh head out. It’s about a 20 min mist flight to the island. On the way we spot a dark mass over the distant island of Lendore and Arienh sees sunlight glinting off of it, leading her to think this is the Mirror of Glass the Lendorians have been looking for. When we get to the beach there are two types of footprints. One group of boots that has been in and out of the jungle a lot carrying supplies, and a second group of boot prints, softer and lighter, that have been following and watching the first group. We follow the path into the jungle.
We get to a giant rock that steams from the places the hot water springs have worn away the rock. There’s natural water overflow trail winding up and around this narrow point of rock. On it are a dozen Lendorians held captive by 8 elves. Near the top, one of the Lendorians is being tortured for information by 3 elves.
Arienh sees that the elves are all wearing Mithril armor with the faces of Lendorians all over it.
Mornie sees the expressions of the three elves:
-          The first is holding the Lendorian in the boiling water and has the same not-present-in-reality expression Coraline sometimes had.
-          The second is asking the questions and seems to be in charge. He is super angry. He is asking “where do the tunnels lead? Where are the others?” The Lendorian keeps answering that he doesn’t know.
-          The third has the intense stare and attentive expression of someone who is reading the Lendorian’s mind. He keeps shaking his head like the Lendorian’s thoughts aren’t giving him any information. Do the Lendorians perhaps have some form of mind shielding?
As we start to fly away to report back, the Elves see us and start shooting arrows. Several hit Mornie before we can get away.
Meanwhile, while we are gone Airell starts identifying items from the cove. He gets through 8, but hasn’t told us what they are.
Jaz-re-something (Guy) asks Airell if the healer can fix him with a greater restoration so he doesn’t have to be carried everywhere. Apparently it hurts his pride. Which is something coming from a guy who hid while his friends were being slaughtered. Airell say, “I dunno, ask her.”
M&A return. We discuss options out of ear shot of Jaz/Guy. Mornie says their arrows have some special abilities (she got hit with a lightening one and maybe a poison). We share info and argue about what to do next. We finally decide that the NPCs will stay in mist form while we rescue the Lendorians. This is complicated because we promised Ynaris that we would not kill any elves.
When we leave Jaz with food and water he asks Arienh to fix him. She says, “Why waste resources on you right now when you can’t even come with us to help? Let us rescue your friends first and then see if we have any resources left.” He agrees that this is sensible although he doesn’t like it.
We mist to the island and land in a clearing. It takes a minute to un-mist and at the end all but Kellen see the elves waiting in ambush. Question: did we cast pass without trace? I don’t remember making a stealth roll, but I remember talking about using pass without trace to sneak up.
Inspiration: Kellen

Session 97. 11-25-2023 MS
Early morning on Freeday, Brewfest 7.

We started our morning fighting plants and exploring a building. Airell is on the roof area of the big building on the island, with a glowing turnip. Arienh took off around the corner with Dalem, while the rest of us burst through the door. We see blood splatters and drag marks everywhere which looks fairly recent - probably two or three days.

We start exploring the area and Kellen is freaking out while we’re searching. Some type of battle happened frequently and it’s such an odd sequence of events. There are cobwebs in many of the rooms, but the area with the blood splatters is in pretty bad repair, not just from the recent battle. I put together that the main tables were pulled apart and used to barricade up the front doors.

In the midst of the detritus, I found a log book. The first entry was from 30 years ago where a lot of the information is about the establishment of the hermitage - from the priesthood of Osprem, one of the sea gods. I recognize a symbol on the third page…the same twisted symbol that Inzarne had (the head of the faction of the Brotherhood (Watchers of the Oblivion.)) This symbol shows up in the margin…and oh crap. The entries are only on the last day of the week and I see the twisted knot symbols showing up every three months or so. Kellen puts together that the first entry coincided with the same year that Abbey Isle was taken over by the Brotherhood. The manner of taking the place was the same - they lied about fleeing from a kingdom. Additionally, she remembered that the twisted knot protected the wearer from any of the traps on Abbey Isle.

Arienh tells me that the bloody body pull marks are taken into the ocean and were pulled by webbed feet individuals. I ask if they are Sahuagin, but Arienh isn’t exactly sure.

I check out the library and they have a limited selection. Arienh recognizes the goddess of Osprem and says that the goddess normally isn’t depicted by herself. I confirm that this is all a cover for the Brotherhood. There were at least two people in here when the attack happened a couple of days ago. The people who were here were reading all of these journals. Each book is about a year and the last one that I look at has the twisted symbol in it.

The pirate mage Sergal (who was Lendorian) created the grimoire more than a century ago. I know that he disappeared in a strange magical storm. He wrote the book, but the Brotherhood found it.

This place is in such shambles - MK ended up falling through the floor from one of the upper rooms. She not only used her head to smash through a door, but now she’s fallen. So…she’s “falling” for the former Brotherhood…ha ha.

We put together that the last log book entry is in 564 when Arienh’s family was killed. Two days after Arienh was found by Ferrin, the priests at the isle said that there was a lot of volcanic activity. I believe that volcanic activity is tied to the Chained Oblivion and the mental madness that spread through the Elves. Arienh does grab a few books and places them in her bag of holding.

Airell explores the upper floors. He found lots of clothing and a tattoo artists’ kit, and probably more stuff. Of course he used Knock to open up the chest. Sheesh. He normally doesn’t cause so much commotion.

I look into the kitchen area and find the locked storage area….which locks from the inside. I find a secret compartment that is big enough for someone to get through. I remove the panel and see a pit with a ladder going down. I yell down that we are there to help. But….

Outside, Kellen goes into the water and sees a bunch of treasure. While going down and trying to retrieve them, three Chuul attack. We take care of them…honestly, MK was awesome and did such a great job wailing on them.

Airell and I dive into the water to look at the treasure trove of items there. We then share all that we found out. Airell, strangely enough, wants to go down into the dark pit, but I stay and help get the rest of the treasure.

Airell and MK go down into the pit and almost land on a skeletal corpse. Airell finds Jasdirzoud unconscious in the corner, suffering from severe dehydration. Airell finds a book and a twisted medallion on the corpse. Airell hands the book to me.

I look in the book and see the image of a man who flickers into existence and is looking at Airell. Coldeven 2, 565 CY is the date that I see on the page. The image starts speaking - The rift is active in a way it has never been before. We cannot observe it as before as the creatures are active and resilient. The people who have gone down there have come back with a skin disease. There is a water disease for those who go down there as well. The man in the image did a spell to see the cause of these issues, and the one word answer was Sgothgah. The second date in the book is 568 CY. Three years away from the first entry. I flip, hesitant, but I know it’s important. Another image pops up. It’s the same man, but he looks harried, starved, and just unkempt. The figure says that it knows it will be dead soon and that Sgothgah will not know what he says. Sgothgah has used the powers of the rift to take over the Lendorian kingdom. It is intent on finishing the ritual that was at Abbey Isle. Sgothgah uses sacrifices to speed up the kraken’s growth. It tried to enslave the Elven kingdom, but it didn’t work, so it had the Lendorians attack the Elven kingdom. The figure knows that his death is imminent. There is an assassin sent to kill the figure, but he is some Baklunish person and not from the Watchers. He wants to out the assassin and hopes that the journal gets back to the Scarlet Brotherhood. The speaker said that he was forced to release the corrupted Syrgaul - the pirate who created the Grimoire of the Deep!!!

Arienh realizes that the assassin is Harid. Bastard. He knew more about Sgothgah that he should have told us. He totally deserved what happened to him.

Kellen approaches Dalem, Tiran, and Kosima. Kellen pulls Kosima aside and asks her about the symbol that is in the logs and Kosima said that there is a spell that encodes a message within a symbol. Kosima says that there is a cypher, but it’s probably in the first book. She’s willing to help out with finding the cypher.

Kosima sees the image in the book and says that she thinks the illusion is the cypher.

We then decide to rest….but I figure out that I need the twisted symbol that Airell is wearing and whip the first log book open to the twisted symbol…and Arienh realized that she didn’t have to worry about casting a spell anymore when one of the Chuul died….and we have no idea who the webbed feet creatures are….

Inspiration: Airell
Session 96. 11-5-2023 LA
Earthday 6. Firewatch Isle.
Fought an overgrown peryton. Harvested it for parts for later. Eyes, liver, horns, 16 feathers.
Weird things are happening to Arienh’s magic.
Cosima died briefly, but we got her back.

Everyone has the same dream floating in dark swirling vastness, but Tyran got it the worst. He even punched MK (bad idea).
Cosima and Dalem also act weird.

Heroes feast for breakfast.

There's a 2 story building with a 4 story tower on the island.

Arienh learns 3 things: there are no powerful fiends/celestial/elementals/etc, terrain - the water drops off very quickly, goes down to 300ft, no animal life around which is abnormal.

Airell’s says he notices something moving inside the building. No one else sees anything. Airell goes to investigate, it looks like someone was destroying those walls. Airell flies up to the second floor and sees arrow slits. There’s some furniture inside. He goes down to find a cabbage.

The cabbage attacks. The local garden is vicious, but very slow. After some fighting MK breaks down the door and hurries in.
Arienh goes around the corner to see what's there.
Airell is up on his broom picking up berries from the garden.

Ritual that needs to be done.  9 successes:
Sacrifice of 3 people is undone. Arcana check
Cast a spell that summons creates or heals. Spell casting
Test of wills with Tharazdun. Charisma/Wisdom
Start of the ritual is about 3mi away from the island under the water.
Cloud form should get us there.

Session 95 10-22-2023 ML
Midmorning, Earthday, Harvester 27. We have just tree ported to outside Pontilver.

The crew is waiting for us, hoping for mo.                                                                                                                                                       re food (which we brought) and more crew (which we did not). Sorel sees that we brough Cosima back with us and is not happy. Mornie tells her to pretend she is fine. Mornie notices that the crew is not wearing weapons. She asks what else is different here. Dalen says no weapons and  no armor allowed. Absolutely no magic allowed. Speaking ancient Suloise is forbidden. We put all that stuff in the hole/bag.

Arienh asks that we all agree to just pay fines when required so we can gtfo.

We enter through the southwest gate (the poorer section of town). There are massive disparities of wealth here. A lot of people here have brands on their faces and Dalem explains that criminals are branded this way and the brands tell crimes, length of sentence, etc. More brands means more crimes. Lots of orcs and hobgoblin types here as well.

It takes a couple of hours to get back to the ship. Sorel does a terrible job of being cool about Cosima. Cosima notices.

Airell leaves to “go sight seeing”. We tell him we leave at dawn.

Once at the ship we drop our stuff and go have a meeting with Sorel. Who is NOT happy about Cosima being back. Kellen tells her Cosima wants to redeem herself and plus we need someone to resurrect for the ritual. Which was news to Sorel who didn’t know about the ritual. And then Kellen says Arienh killed Soral’s god. Sorel says at least Arienh saves people a lot. Is Cosima part of the crew now?

Mornie explains about the ritual and asks that Soral let her be part of the crew so the rest of the crew doesn’t find out. Soral reluctantly agrees, but on the condition that she leave the ship after the ritual to which we agree.

Dalen leaves and tells the crew to gather. The rest of us discuss the maelstrom while they gather. Then Dalem tells the crew we need volunteers to come with us to die and be resurrected. Dalem is going and we need two more people. Cosima volunteers. Anselm asks where we are and comes looking for MK. He says Tiran is going with you. Bring him back alive or be dead with him.

We find out later that when Dalen put the call out Kerrick and Cosima volunteered at once, Cosima said Kerricks family needed him to live and get back in line. Tiran volunteered, Anselm said No Way, and Tiran said they need someone who can swim and Anselm can’t.

We keep planning. We come up with as good a plan as we ever make: Get as close as we can, when we are intercepted by an Elven ship the IT crew and friends mist away while Ynellis talks to the elves and tells them the falling star was returning the elves.

Mornie checks on crew morale and boosts it with card games and trash talking and general comradery.

Meanwhile Airell…

Starts at the basilica, moves on to the palace but can’t get close. Chats to a guard about what’s going on in the city the next few days. To market, to market, to sell a fine mask.But lawful evil bureaucracy is a bitch so too bad.

On to information gathering. They think something bad happened to the Brotherhood in Akul the Bosok’Shar went crazy and it was a horror scene. The Isle of Suluf (watcher tower location) is even more off limits than before. The lordship of the isle where the Auridian nobles are in revolt against the brotherhood but not violent yet. Anthala Qeen and dragon turtle avoid Pontiliver because someone high up said stay out of our waters and you won’t be our enemy. They have no knowledge of a civil war.

Airell heads back to the ship.

The next morning we set sail (Freeday, Harvester 28). Before we can leave the ship is inspected by the port authority.

We have a week to sail to the point we enter the outskirts of the Maelstrom.

Arienh scries:

Xendros: Small room, she is at the desk scribbling. There is a window/door to a balcony and a city is visible, but only in shadow because the clouds are dark. Maps and notes are everywhere, her notes are in a language Arienh doesn’t understand, but they seem to be reports of who was stationed by each tower at Greyhawk. They seem to have been through several levels of the towers. Some passages between towers are marked. The city outside is not Greyhawk and Arienh doesn’t recognize it. She is looking out over a large lake right where the river meets the lake. It is a city of slums and gates with spiked iron. Can’t tell the time of day because of the clouds and smoke, but it is day so somewhere in the flannels.

Waldorf: Failed

Kro Terlep Where we met with the Father of Obedience: Fail

Kro Terlep at the tree we sent Cosima through: Success, a bunch of guards are surrounding the tree. The gardens are empty.

Kellen dreams to Drawmij: He asks how things are but says don’t give me any details. He is in the North. Anything we don’t say can’t be told under threat of a knife.

She tells him about the vampire who served under granny nightshade and the giants. Drawmij is concerned that the Fist of the Furnace is connected to the Oblivion. The giants are on the move in the general direction of Drawmij. He has concerns that others are trying to break into the thing including the giants, but we need to go to the place and destroy the thing. (Why he has to be so cryptic in a dream I do not know). The obelisks are all connected and whoever was manipulating the Brotherhood was trying to destroy the one near Saltmarsh.

Kellen tells him about Cosima and Turtleback Agatha. Drawmij says Turtleback is probably trying to get back at Anthala Qeen and will likely work with the Brotherhood.

Drawmij is likely in the Valley of the Mage (North of Seaton). He has found Mordenkainen and was found by him. He’s hoping The Mage isn’t Mordenkainen.

Kellen tells us about the dream and Arienh tells about the scrying.

MK recognizes the city Xendros is in as Dorakaa and tells us. The only place that demons, fiends, etc can exist long term in this world. The black clouds are said to be one of the reasons.

Mornie carves the shiphead to look more like Arienh and the rest of the IT crew.

Brewfest 5 - we finish a long rest or week of study.

Brewfest 6 - Soral turns sharply toward the Maelstrom. We see the wall of weather in front of us. Sailing is getting rough.

Airell casts water breathing, Arienh casts wind walk, Querion casts death ward (3 days) on MK, Kellen, and Arienh and gives Airell a scroll of Revivify. Coraline gives Daelin a potion of greater healing.

As soon as we hit the storm it’s like slamming into a wall. The storm tries to tear us apart.

Arienh is leading, we are slightly off course, Airell corrects the course (he has a bow that does fancy stuff that helps). Several members of the group are picking up exhaustion. We make it through the Maelstrom and force march to the island. We can see the rift in the distance, and land by the fortress on Firewatch island.

Mornie sees and MK, Mornie, and Arienh hear a big bird thing take off and dive toward us. Everyone else will be surprised by the first round of combat.

Exhaustion:
Mornie - 1
Tiren - 3
Dalen - 3
Kellen - 3
Airell - 3
MK - 0
Cosima - 4
Arienh - 0

Remember - Wind walk was cast midmorning brewfest 6, lasts 3 days. We can go in and out of it ask many times as we want until the spell ends. It takes 1 minute to become mist or revert.

Inspiration: Mornie

Session 94 10-15-2023 MS
Evening of Freeday, Harvester 21
Kellen is out drinking. I am cleaning my guns and weapons. Airell is gambling. Querion is hanging around town. Yenellas is shadowing Coraline, making sure that she’s okay.

I’m doing what I can to not overeat. Amanda is a fantastic cook, but, Pelor’s mercy, she sure overdoes it. She even made it so our portable hole is filled with rations!

Yenellas joins us at our home. He runs into me and wants to know what is going on. He is offering to help and wants to talk to us all. We see Aethid leaving Arienh after what was a meeting of some congeniality. I ask Aethid if she could stop by the Snapping Line to get Kellen and MK, and she agrees. Kellen helps to summon Airell, where he’s in some gambling hall winning a bunch of silver. I walk over to Arienh and ask her to come back to the house.

Yenellas starts the conversation about us needing to go to Lendor Isle. Lots of issues with the defenses there. We don’t have a plan yet of how to deal with them.

We know that we need to:
Get Turtleback Agatha out of Saltmarsh. We need one of the crew to invite her to his area.
Get back to the Falling Star - I’ve organized this with Sohrel already.
Destroy the Grimoire
Help Airell get his protection tattoo (same area where we can destroy the Grimoire)

Arienh pulls out her map and Yenellas points to a small island called Firewatch Isle. It’s an uninhabited rock outside of the main Lendor Isle. The lava can be seen from there, hence its name. He thinks that’s where the obelisk is. Problem: the maelstrom is blocking us from there. The maelstrom is created by something called the Amber Throne. A ruling council has to be constantly feeding their power into it so that it can be maintained. We find out that the ships are able to get through the Maelstrom. Yenellas is willing to help us to get there, but he’s asking us to not kill any of his people. They are suffering with similar issues, like Coraline. She’s one of the better ones with her episodes of crazy.

I ask whether or not we can mist over to the island. Arienh says we could make it over with the three needed people. Coraline cannot go to the island as it will, in his words, break her.

Kellen asks if we could change our appearance to high elves. And we can forge the right documents. Yenellas really wants us to avoid hurting the elves and is hesitant about this plan. He restates that Querion’s job is very important to helping heal the isle and the people. He states that the elves are afraid. All of their soldiers were affected by this plague and there’s no cure in sight. They’ve tried different things, but are limited by lack of sight to try something new.

Then there’s lots of ideas thrown out as to what we can do. Honestly, not worth me writing it down here.

He keeps reiterating that we need to not kill any elves. Kellen even does a pinky promise to him that we will try our hardest to not kill any elves. He then takes his leave.

We start talking about the different scenarios and discuss the need to have enough diamonds for three revivify spells. Arienh requests for us to wait for a week. I bring up that Sohrel is expecting us. She then brings up the need to find an acolyte, which will help provide additional protection for Saltmarsh. Funny part - she brings up that Kellen is an issue. Kellen tries to offer help, and, well, it didn’t go over well.

Need to talk to Sohrel about changing our plans - Talk to her in the morning to let her know that we are putting things off for a week. Does she need anything? Food, funds? Let me know and we will drop off by tomorrow at noon, your time.10-12 people can be swapped out. Cosima needs to come back with us.

Kellen makes Arienh a bracelet with a tropical vibe and it has the spell of suggestion in it.

We decide that I need to dream to her. I mention that Cosima needs to come back to us. She asks for 350 gp to give a 10 gp bonus to everyone. Some food would be good. Turns out we lost Donville and Durand - they decided to leave without telling anyone. Lost 7 people so far in total. I asked if we should recruit some more. MK’s guests are doing very well. I will message her in a couple of days.

Arienh spends time trying to find an acolyte. Put another revivify into my ring. We have enough for the revivify spell to be casted for the ritual!

Arienh takes MK with her to provide food and to also gather Cosima. She hands over the 350 gp to Dalem to hand out to the crew. Arienh uses the bracelet to “suggest” to Cosima that she needs to come with her back to Saltmarsh. Dalem mentions that Cosima will most likely help with recruiting.

Turtleback Agatha is waiting for us at our house. She’s so thrilled to see Cosima. Cosima realizes that we know where she is truly from and tries to kill herself. MK disarms her and I sit on her legs. Airell casts suggestion to take Turtleback Agatha to Kro Terlep. Kellen asks her if she was spying on us. She said that yes she was, at first. Kellen wants her to explain. Cosima’s real name is —----. Her father is Skerrin Wavechaser. WTF. The Office of Diplomacy trained her to be like them. She said that Skerrin originally had her spying on the IT Crew. The original cook on the boat was a spy, but was a spy to be found to divert from her. Cosima said that she only worked for him, but her eyes were opened to what the real world was truly like. I confirm that this is the truth and inform everyone through thieve’s cant. She expresses that they will take her apart in Kro Terlep if she stays there. She made the change after the Saughagin fight. She didn’t have a lot of loyalty to him.

Cosima asks what she needs to do. Turtleback Agatha says that Cosima needs to invite her to her home and take her there. They walk to the grove’s tree and Turtleback is visibly uncomfortable, with white lesions forming on her body. I can tell that Arienh is purposely slow in walking there…hahahaha. Airell gives Cosima the talisman so that she can teleport back immediately, which she does. She looks nervous when she returns. We have to figure out what to do with her.

Arienh tries to scry on Zendros - no luck. She then tries on Joza. Joza is not in Gradsul, but some other big city. Arienh believes she is in Gryrax, and she’s in disguise. She appears to be being hunted and is trying to ensure that she’s not being followed by anyone. Arienh shares that with us all. Airell put together that she’s on the run.

Airell talks to the other plane and wants to ask Eda these questions. He tells us later that he doesn’t get transported to the same place as before. Instead, he is taken to the place where Skerrin is. There is a message for Arienh - A debt of suffering is owed. And no matter the cost, it will be paid.
Other plane questions:
What strategy should we use to get across the maelstrom? A) Arienh’s magic, B) swimming under the maelstrom, C) stealing a ship, or D) a different course of action.
If she selects D - What would be the different course of action?
Are there more spies on the Falling Star? No
Who should Arienh recruit to be her acolyte? Unknown.
Which spell should Arienh use? (He instead said “best” which Skerrin used against him.)
How much does it bother you that we beat you because we were smarter than you? A great deal.

Kellen puts together that Skerrin is in one of the levels of hell, specifically the lowest level of hell.

MK decides to go and talk to Cosima. She wants to convince her to be one of the people to be a sacrifice for the Grimoire destruction ceremony. Cosima does agree to it, but she’s doubtful about the resurrection part.

Arienh checks in with Mafera and sees if she would reconsider being a Druid. Many people are afraid of Arienh now. Mafera is willing to watch over the Sea Grove and help get it back temporarily. She expresses that she is not willing to go back to the city. Arienh talks to her about possibly being the protector and a druid. Mafera still says no, but she’s willing to help with the people.

We finish our week’s rest and then plan to go to Pontilivar. We walk through the tree and then Arienh points to Kellen and says, “Kellen, no magic!”

Inspiration: MK
Session 93 8-26-2023
Evening Starday, Harvester 15
Collapsing into beds. It’s been a very busy week.
Coraline is not taking the rest. She sorts all the things, sets up a theater, recites poetry,
2 hours in - a pouch starts screaming and shrieking. Coraline laughs. Airell is not amused, it was his coin pouch. Q says it would’ve been better if they brought the old man. Coraline is not paying too much attention. Mornie blocks the door, but lets her play.
Someone pounds on the door asking about screaming. Mornie tells them it’s ok.
Arienh recognizes the thousand yard stare that Coraline has. She’s not okay, but it’s not magical. It would be good for her to sleep.
Kellen makes and image of Yenellas and tries to convince Coraline to sleep. It doesn’t work.
Airell casts Remove Curse - no effect.
Mornie and MK are humming the same song Coraline is humming.
Airell casts Greater Restoration. Coraline returns. She doesn’t remember much from this day. She goes to sleep.
Mornie starts cleaning up the room.

Next morning is less exhausting. Except MK who is flailing around and screaming. She expected to be in pain, but there’s none. Why screaming? Who knows.

Breakfast and checking in with sending stones.
Arienh calls Clee with information about the giants. Something vampire, something chained oblivion. Clee doesn’t know what Chained oblivion is. GIants, where? It’s not very productive.

Mornie calls Sohrel: Checking in, time has been replaced, is Sohrel better? We are back together. Killed lots of vampires. Can you sail back to the island where Arienh first left us. Sorrel herself replies: I’m alive. Questioning if I want to be. We’re in Pontilver. Crew is not in great shape. No island, talk tomorrow.
Coraline heard about Pontylver. Airell knows there’s a See of Medegio, holy land given over to the church of Hector. Pontylver is one of the 2 port cities, the southern city, borders the brotherhood.
Mornie wants to go back and put some restrictions on Turtleback Agatha.
Mornie tells Arienh it’s nice to have her back, but does not give her a hug.

Outside Kiara and 3 wood elves are waiting. It’s Innalan and Keyaris who kept watch in Saltcrest on Turtleback Agatha and a new one. Nericaryn Yeldriphenni. The high seer of Relefain. And she is really really old.

Nericaryn came with a speech to Arienh. “Since my grandmother’s time the morning dawn never pierced the shadow of the dreadwood. Until this morning. Our people fled the dreadwood before my mother’s time. I took auguries as to what caused this miracle and learned that I needed to come here to meet those who healed the wound. It will take time for the corruption to fully fade, but you all have healed the wound created by hero god Stratos’ foolishness. I came here to offer you my thanks.”
She drops down onto her knees and holds her staff up to Arienh. Everyone stares. Arienh tries to decline, but takes the staff at the end. This is devandel veledar, staff of the deep wood. It comes with a title of The Great Druid of Silverstan

MK asks Airell to check if it’s cursed. Paranoia is high.

After the pleasantries are exchanged it’s time to ride to Saltmarsh. We arrive about an hour after sunset.
It’s time to go drinking. MK wants to go out to the divy Empty Net, Mornie takes everybody to Snapping Line, a less disreputable pub. Including Amanda, the housekeeper who clearly has issues and copes with them by cooking.

Hanna the owner is a friend and gives the local news:
They probably got all the vampires, but it’s possible some are hiding. Funeral is tomorrow for everybody.
Airell poured something very strong into MK’s glass. After a few rounds of that MK gets drunk and starts singing terribly.
Kellen pickpockets some rando. She is surprisingly very proud. She goes back and puts it back.
The tanner comes by and asks Mornie about the skin. MK asks if it’s possible to make a hood from the face skin. Airell keeps pouring drinks to MK.

Mornie goes to check on Anders. His house is a hospital. Fish warehouse is a church of dawn father now. There’s a sleepy guard. Mornie says that she has a note to Anders. He’s asleep. The guard is star struck and says he will deliver it in the morning.

Back at the house - Arienh is going to bed. A mosquito bites her, she slaps it and the blood is shimmery and drips to the ground. It’s on the ground and writhing. Turtleback Agatha arrives.
She’s not comfortable being here. While there’s a druid in the Sea Grove this is not a nice place for her. Apparently Anthala Qin created it and outsmarter her long time ago. She says that there’s a person named Cosima on the Falling Star who can invite her to Kro Terlep. Sounds like a plan.
Agatha also shines some light on Arienh’s wiped out memories, talking about the stabbing of Granny Nightshade. She also mentioned something about Arienh being touched by an Archfey and how her children will be different if she ever has them.

Kellen makes Mornie dream to Sohrel. Sohrel is feeling miserable. She says her faith is complicated.
Ryder and Kerrick fell ill a few days ago. Ryder died. Mornie confirms that it happened to all of the Olands.
The crew hit a breaking point. There was a mutiny. Dalem put them under wraps. No one got seriously hurt, just bumps and bruises. Apparently Dalem broke people with talking. The crew was terrified of the dragon turtle and the Druid. They sailed in random directions, after the mutiny Vohen said we’re going to the nearest port we can. He figured the church of hextor are such bastards it’s an ok place.
Sohrel says if Arienh Scries on her at noon next day she will be near a remote place with trees.
What’s the plan?
Still destroy the Grimoire. Get the elves back. We need to pick up Yenellas and Aethid.
Vohen asked around - the elves blockage the island with magic storm. Nobody gets through.
Might want to ask Eda: How to get through to the Landor Isle that is blockaded by the elves.
Mornie says if someone questions if it was really her tell them “let me put you on hold”.

Kellen Dreams to Aethid herself. That conversation doesn’t go well. But Aethid is safe and they will be in Saltmarsh tomorrow at noon. Yenellas is still with her.

Airell has a visitor. It’s the blind father. Until it’s not. Alademara wanted to check in.
She commends him for not going on a revenge mission against blind father. Don’t worry, you will get your chance. For now the most important thing to focus on is getting rid of the Grimoire. And finding the tattoo artist, the window will close in the next couple of weeks. Rest and recover, but don’t take too long.
She knows about Eda and her minder. Something happened to Eda. She upset a lot of people with what she did. Eda outed Alademara somehow. But it has been fun.
She has a gift. Down the line, after the business with the Grimoire is over. When the rituals didn’t work out she can repurpose some of the energy. She did that before for Arienh - Arienh got more lucky.
Airell asks if there’s something with burnt circle that she wants done. She says it was a joke that got out of hand. They did it to mess with the brotherhood. It’s a great place to hide out if needed.
The brotherhood is very stubborn. They don’t like going there.
She tells him to work on Kellen’s technique. With that the smile widens and everything else fades.

Harvester 17.
Big breakfast from Amanda.

Coraline and Q know about the storm around the islands. The island is corrupted and cursed. There are some landorians that are there, some that are trying to get in.

Mornie told Anders to come over. She feels sorry for him. She thought of a plan to send him to return horses to Eliander and ask him for money.
Airell detects a crush.
Anders shows up. He’s very different - pale yellow simple robes, symbol of Pelor, simple beard. Looks uncomfortable.
Mornie stands on the deck waiting. Airell leaves them alone.
Anders says it’s weird to see Airell so small. The priests of Pelor are the only ones who would take him in.
Mornie says “you’ve proven yourself and past what you’ve done.” He’s no longer confident. He’s very subdued and very passive.
Mornie asks him a favor to return the horses and ask to help with the repairs of the FS.
He says he’s not the right person for this. He says he’s happy to take the horses, but Eliander wouldn’t listen to him. He can talk to Abbot Tillan to go with him and help with talking.
Mornie wants Anders to mend things. So she wants him to talk to Eliander. She gives him a letter to give to Eliander. She puts his hand on his and turns to leave. She is blushing. He leaves.

Airell wants to go to Empty Net to find out about Yskralier and Styes. The trade is not impacted. Y invaded with dwarves. He’s building some pilons in the water, different from towers he had before, looks like a windmill. There’s construction in the ruins. No one knows what they are buildings. They are dredging the lagoon to clean it. Most of the money goes to Styes.

Aethid and Yenellas arrive. The bird found them. They went to the elven embassy to ask help to hide out and get a passage on the ship.

Funerals happen. Sad.

Arienh Scries. She goes to Sea Grove for it. It’s empty there. There’s a very distinctive tree. Sohrel and Vohen are having a picnic there, chatting. Sohrel doesn’t look good and coughs. Sohrel wants to be a Dragonborn.

Kellen goes to ask Gellen for money. She fumbles a lot. He says he can talk to Eliander to fix FS for free. He says he doesn’t have the money. Kellen tries to persuade him, manages to make him agree to make them a chalice.
MINE!
MINEEEE!
MIIIIINEEE!!
MINe!
MINEE!!
MIIIINEEE!
Inventory: Gellen promises to make a chalice.


Arienh wants to scry on Xendros. Chill, smell of old stone and dirt, vast stone room. Battle scene, machinery, bloody smears that used to be a body. Xendros standing in the middle of it with other people. Pale-looking dwarves looting the bodies. Hobgoblins in formation taking out wounded. There are demons, a demonic gorilla with extra arms. Demonic Minotaur. Occasional human in loose-fitting leather and furs. Xendros in full armor with dings, but not from this battle. She’s surveying the damage. She’s talking to snake-bodied four-armed woman, but it’s telepathic. There are smashed and mangled bodies. Some warriors turned into bubbling remains from acid splashes. Orc points to a door. There’s a massive stone slab covering the door. The door they came through had a slab, but it’s now broken. She’s probably still under castle Grayhawk, methodically working her way down to something.

Airell wants to rob Xendros’ house. He asked MK, but she refused to go with him.
50 gold and 300 silver. Thief’s tools, traveling clothes, explorers’ pack.

On the evening of the last day (21st), Aethid Oland visits Arienh. She wants to talk and is holding a bottle of alcohol and two glasses. She tells Arienh that she will always blame Arienh for bringing her mother’s murderer to Saltmarsh, but she says that she knows that if the IT crew hadn’t been here, the city would be gone. Aethid doesn’t know if she’ll ever be able to forgive them. She recognizes that Arienh saved her entire family again by whatever happened on the island. She is going to work on being more grateful. Arienh says she has lots of things on her conciseness too, so she understands. Aethid leaves.

Inventory: Promiced chalice from Gellan
Question to Eda: How to go through the storm on Landor isles.
During long rest: Mornie crushes 100g diamonds into dust
Long rest complete!
Inspiration: Coraline
Session 92 8-12-2023 - ML
Starday, Harvester 15
We are at Scornkeep. Being stealthy was a fail. We fly for the center as fast as we can and find Granny Nightshade. We hear the voice of Visimar, the only surviving vampire. He is confused by the birds. We fly for Granny who starts grabbing us with her free hand.
Arienh loses the Animal Shapes, MK tries to get the sword several times, we fight a lot. Giants coming! Arienh makes a tree. Granny kills a tree. So much for treeing out of here quickly. Querion dies. Airell finds the Revivify spell scroll and uses it on him. Coraline has the manic pixie look in her eyes.
Kellen doesn’t realize Querion has been revivified and considers rolling him into the portable hole for easy transport.
Arienh goes down but gets fire-spirit revival and is instantly up.
MK gets the sword!!
Granny vanishes and appears next to Arienh. Time for another deal. We lose our memories of why we are here (Granny doesn’t want it getting out that she was bested by a mortal), and we leave with our lives and the sword. We also leave the piece of time Arienh stole in exchange for knowing more about Iuz’s weaknesses:
Iuz exists in three places: the prime material plane, the feywild, and the shadowfell. Normally killing him in one place doesn’t remove him from the others, but the swords of the betrayers cuts him in all three planes at once. Each betrayer had a weapon, each does the same. Iuz will follow Arienh wherever she goes.
And so with slightly fewer memories, we head back to Saltmarsh (Airell makes a bunch of phantom steeds) and spend the night at Berle

Session 91 7-29-2023 - MS
Midday, Harvester 13

On Siren’s Point. Killed off a lot of vampires and the rest are fleeing. The skies are starting to clear.

Eda returns to her regular form and reaches out to take Arienh’s hands. Eda says, “I am so, so sorry.”
Arienh:  “For what?”
Eda:  “This burden was too much for one person alone. And we didn’t make you ready. Well, that’s not true, Ferrin did his job, but I fucked up. I left you to face this, all alone.”
A: “Yeah, but it’s not like you knew that you were going to die. We did the best we could.”
E: “Yes, that’s my point. I was an old woman who was living on piss and vinegar. How much time did you think I had? I left you with this. I am so very sorry.”
A: “It’s okay.”
Eda is obviously uncomfortable with this conversation. She tells Arienh not to beat herself up about this.

We start hearing low growls and we see the vampires starting to come back. Eda opens up the clouds and the sunlight scares them back.
“Listen, I can’t stay any longer and I’m not going to be able to do this again any time soon. This showed my hand to a lot of people and they’re pissed.”
Eda touches Arienh’s face, like a grandma would. Arienh panics a little, but then lets her do it. “It was absolutely worth all the shit coming my way just to see you again.”
Arienh says, “Yeah, I was a little jealous that Airell got to see you.”
Eda says, “That wasn’t my plan.” She glares a bit at Kellen who shrinks a bit into herself. Kellen mumbles about her patron making that choice.
Eda says to us all, “You are not just the best that we have, but you are the right choice.” She smiles grimly and leaves.
Kellen turns to Quarion and asks him how he did that. He says, “Magic beads.”
K: “Can you do that again?”
Q: “Not for a while.”

Arienh tells us about her new powers. She and Kellen have a good moment talking about powers.

As Arienh starts walking away from MK’s serenade. When she leaves, a strange moth stays behind and then turns into a cocoon. Kellen stomps on it as it keeps growing. It keeps moving and turns into Turtleback Agatha.

Agatha states that Saltmarsh is her new home. Arienh invited her there. Kellen tries to get info out of her, and it’s all very vague. Agatha encourages Kellen to attack her, and she hits her with an Eldritch blast. It hurts Arienh instead.

Arienh tells us that if Agatha dies, Arienh dies, and not vice versa. Once they die we kill Agatha, a new hag is born. Agatha states that she doesn’t want to stay in Saltmarsh and would like to be invited elsewhere - Kro Terlep. It surprises Agatha that Kellen figured it out. Agatha doesn’t like the Sea Grove. She tells us to go off and deal with MK, then disappears. We see that Agatha (being invisible) goes to the edge of the cliff and then probably flies.

Mornie has been keeping watch during this entire conversation. The skies have cleared and the vampires are going for cover. Many are under trees and the ones on the cliff burn up. She sees that a few are hiding under the bridge. She tells everyone that we should get rid of the ones that we can so that they don’t terrorize the Saltmarsh people. The town people start mobilizing and are methodically taking out the vampires. We run into Ministred and we are surprised that she is happy to see us. She tells us that the council wants to see us and say hi.

The townsfolk are extremely happy to see us. They are cheering us on and Airell was handed a bottle of hard alcohol.

Three council members are left - Ministred,Gellan, and the gnome Jilar (head of the shipwright’s guild). Daarven (king’s summons) and Ma Garret (dead) are not there anymore.

Gellan greets us as “The heroes of Saltmarsh!” We get the low-down of everything going on. Amanda is going nuts feeding people and has been up for 36 hours. The Priest of Pelor steps forward and said that his people can help with the vampire issue.

Mornie climbs up on the roof and uses her sword to let everyone know that we’re back and to kill the vampires. We will help! The people disperse and scatter to do what she says.

Mornie tells Gellan that MK is cursed and there is a short time frame. She also mentions that there is a hag now in Saltmarsh and she isn’t to be touched. If she’s injured, Arienh is injured. Gellan figures out that it is Turtleback Agatha. Gellan then tells MK the history of Saltmarsh and Saltcrest. Saltcrest had invited in a hag and was cursed. It destroyed them. We knew she was a problem.

Ministred comes and tells them the status of the city - up to 1000 died. The Owelands were wracked with pain. A few of them died. The entire contingent of the church of St. Cuthbert is dead. Gellan says, “Good riddance. Between the Garrets and them gone in two weeks, this is a good thing.” Gellan then sputters when he realizes what he says after everyone is silent, staring at him. Gellan leaves along with Jilar. She says through gritted teeth, “Of all the poorly worded….” Gellan waves her off.

Welgar steps forward and asks Arienh what she wants him to do with her flock of birds. He speaks Druidic and so can talk to them. She tells him that they are safer with him. They should keep an eye out for Agatha.

Mornie asks Kiorna to turn the Oni skin into leather for her. It will take four months.

We then discuss options of how to get to the Scornkeep.

Query asks Commune the following questions -
Is going through Burle the best route? - yes
Is taking the horses, not taking animal shapes, the best? - yes
Is it good to push the horses to get to Burl tonight? - unclear

We are going to push the horses to get to Burle. Mefera was asked to relay the message that the IT Crew was leaving…an hour after we left. After the ride, Mornie has one level of exhaustion, MK has two, Coraline has two, and Kellen has one.

When we get to Burle, we get asked our business and Mornie states that we are there to see Kiara Shadowbreaker. They let us in. Kiara greets us heartily. We fill her in on the state of the world. She gives us horses and supplies.

After resting and eating, we all go to sleep. Arienh falls into a deep sleep, the first in a very long time. She dreams:

Wakes up in a field of green wheat, with her black flaming fire
There’s a dome of stars with no moon
Lots of wind, with the dust of the wheat getting whipped up
She realizes that this is the same dream she had a long time ago before she was cursed
She sees three shapes of people in front of her - Lo Zareth and Inzarne (the Scarlet Brotherhood). The alive one is Hareed. He is holding his ruined face with his remaining hand.
She walks further down and sees the bloodied form of Reyna. Arienh is holding one of the horns in her hand. Reyna reaches up and is trying to speak to her. Reyna isn’t trying to warn Arienh, but is trying to stop her. Arienh realizes that Reyna’s wounds are caused by her. Reyna is trying to plead with Arienh.
Arienh brushes past her. There is the broken form of Reyna’s druid on the ground, unmoving.
The wind is not pushing Arienh away.
Aeneras Dawnsinger kneels before her.
She sees the sea, but there is no smell of salt, only dirt.
She steps onto the Nir Div. She sees the shell of the dragon turtle and beside it kneels Anthala Queen. He is tending to his Dragon Turtle. He edges away from Arienh.
Ahead of her is the following scene, Nir Div is stretching as far as you can see. Iuz is standing there with the water up to his knees.
Iuz’s arms and his brow have form. The rest of him is a silhouette. There are four shards back to him.
He stares at her with extreme hatred.
She sees four shapes at his feet - fiery shapes. One crimson, ocre, and black. The one recognized is Waldorf - circled by iridescent flame.
The shapes are trying to keep Iuz from rushing towards Arienh.
Arienh realizes that one of the obelisks is in the Nir Div. Whatever plan they had, included the obelisks.
She realizes that Skerrin knew how to use the standing stones. This means that Iuz wants to come to Saltmarsh to use the standing stones.
She now understands that in trying to save Saltmarsh, the rest of the world will be destroyed.
The vision is a hint on how to foil Iuz on his plan - meet him at Nir Div. He cannot stop himself from trying to destroy you.
She needs her friends with her to help with this plan.

Arienh tells us all about her vision - first time in forever!

MK has a nasty wake up - a searing pain in her chest. Stupid Geas. We head up the road.

In preparing to get through the Dreadwood, we start concocting a plan to get everyone to fly/teleport to the Scorned Keep. Kellen reveals that she can talk to Airell telepathically. Good times.

We decide to ride to the Janustrem Depths and then fly to Scorned Keep.

Mornie hears Vohen’s voice. “Sorrel is still unconscious. Ryder Oland died yesterday. He and Kerrick had a seizure. Crew almost mutinied. Want to come home. What should we do?”

Mornie says, “Tell Crew Airenh’s back. We know about the Olands. You can’t go through the Strait. Writ is with us. Currently fixing big problem. Back soon.”

We are going to send the horses back with the rangers, which means we are going to go fast.

Once we get to the river, Arienh hears Klee say, “Hey Arienh what problems are you facing that needed me? Did you blow it up? Do you need anything blown up? You can reply hopefully.” Arienh replies that we’re all alive and dealing with issues.

Kellen then sets up the entrance to her demi-plane where everyone can sleep. It’s nice and cozy. Airell sets Alarm. We decide that Arienh is going to turn us into birds, we fly, and then land before getting to the Scorned Keep. She will give the sliver of time to Airell, MK will pull out the sword, and Airenh will remain to the side.

We sleep. MK wakes up in pain again…but she doesn’t take as much damage because of Kellen’s inspiring speech. Phew.

Arienh hands the sliver of time to Airell, and then turns us into flying owls. Kellen wanted to be a flying squirrel for a bit…Arienh graciously lets her for a couple of minutes.

Arienh leads the group successfully to a clearing that’s filled with shadow - lots of foliage and shadow. We go in. When we try to land in a tree, four of us do so quietly, but not the other three. The undead there see us. Uh oh.

Inspiration: No inspiration

Session 90 7-23-2023 - ML
Early morning, Harvester 13
The weird vampire is talking about destroying the whole line of the betrayer. He says he can tell her how to stop it. For a favor. This fey deal includes:
-          Return to Scornkeep
-          Remove the sword from Granny Nightshade
-          MK gets a Geas on her that will slowly leach her life until we get it done. And if we fail, hello shard of Iuz.
After much debate, Querion casts Augury and we find out that taking the deal would be good. So we do, after some protests from MK. The vampire slices his neck and then uses the bloody nail to carve a rune into MK’s chest. Now every sunrise until the sword is taken out of Granny nightshade MK will take damage.
 After a disjointed interview with the vampire, we learn the following:
-          The vampire’s name is Odikus Oedicus. He is one of the three who are in Granny Nightshade’s court. All three love her and will do anything for her attention and favor. Odikus is the master of the wild hunt, or something like that.
-          Granny has been trapped by the sword for 1200 years. (Iuz was defeated almost 580 years ago so it was a long time before anyone who could remove the sword even existed since it can only be moved if a descendant of a betrayer is nearby.) Granny has long since gone crazy. And this is why the dreadwood is dreadful
-          The other two vampires are named Naradul (Marshall of Scornkeep, the smarter one) and Visimar (Herald of the Scorn Court, the dumb one). Naradul figured out what Skerrin was doing with the standing stones, trying to rework the spells, tap into the power of the obelisk, etc. Similar to what crazy Arienh was planning to do. He is planning to use the stones to rip the god-oath out of all the descendants of the betrayers, thus killing them, and taking the god-oath all on himself.
-          The god-oath is what the betrayers and their descendants got when they chopped up Iuz. Basically Iuz is bent on destroying anyone with a god-oath. As in, his oath to wipe out the lines of the betrayers.
-          If Naradul has the god-oath on him, then he will be able to remove the sword himself. Of course, he will then be a big flaming beacon for Iuz to head for, but hey, if he can get back to Stonekeep before that happens, his lady love will be free.
-          Naradul and Visimar are currently in Saltmarsh putting this plan into action.
-          Visimar is the one who started the mess with the giants. He also saw what Skerrin and the brotherhood were doing with the herald and chained oblivion and was like, you know what this plan needs instead of a human herald? A giant herald. That went poorly and no, he does not want to talk about it.
While this conversation is happening, Airell tries to check out Odikus’ long bow, but it’s just a pile of sticks now.
Odikus dies.
Mornie skins an Oni while the rest of us finish our short rest.
Now what? Head for Scornkeep and try to take the sword? It took Arienh 5 days, hopefully MK survives that long. Two hours in, we realize that Arienh moves way faster than everyone else in these woods. It’s going to take the rest of the group 8 days.
Plan B, Querion talks to the moon or something. Meanwhile Arienh gets a migrane and a level of exhaustion.
Commune questions:
First question: Would Arienh taking a long rest be the best way for us to get to Scorned Keep? No
Second question: Is it best for us to continue on right now and get the sword from Granny Nightshade?
No
Last question: Would going to Saltmarsh be the best course of action right now?
Yes
Saltmarsh it is. Arienh calls up the tree portal and we are in the Sea Grove in moments.
(Side note, Kellen looks for Agatha in Arienh’s hair, but she is nowhere to be found. We assume she is there. Did she hop off as soon as we got to Saltmarsh? Who knows. That is a problem for after the vampires are dealt with. And speaking of vampires…)
The town is full of vampires. The streets are still, carts with dead horses litter the streets, there is an unnatural cloud cover over just the town, and a weird light emanates from near the standing stones. Just out to sea is a ghost giant.
Hiding in the grove is Welgar, priest of Procan. He tells us what happened:
Seven days ago Procan made him sick and drove him to the sea grove, presumably to wait for us. This saved him when the vampires attacked. The day after the IT crew left, Hubroren had taken a group into the marsh to hunt down the remaining Garretts and they (Hubroren and co.) were the first wave of vampires. The people fled to Hool hill and Upcliff to regroup and figure out what to do. The vampires went after anyone in the open, but left anyone hunkered down inside their homes. Now they are just keeping everyone pinned in place. Most of them are at Siren’s Point. The light there started this morning and the Giant brought the storm.
Kellen sends her eye across the city. There are 20 to 30 vampires just on the streets of the Salterdocks roaming in a sweeping pattern. More are searching Siren’s Point, one is casting a spell, others chiseling at the stones, one watching it all.
The watcher looks right over at us, and all the vampires look pained, wincing in the direction of the sea grove. We’ve been made.
Kellen switches the eye to the audio setting and hears,
“Just keep doing it.”
“This is much faster than anticipated.”
“Can’t handle it?”
Snarl
“She’s here.”
The eye checks out the ghost giant. Undead, floating 80 ish feet up just off the cliff. Certain types of giants can control the weather and we assume this one can.
We discuss options.
Arienh sending stones to Klee asking how to deal with ghost giants. Klee replied with a Wiki link to giants.
At last we have a plan. The eye will scout a place for Airell to land after flying there invisibly on his broom. Kellen, also invisible, will teleport to him with the rest of us (invisible) in the hole.
This works. We fight. Querion summons a huge planer Eda who whoops some vampire ass. She is a giant human(ish) hurricane of power.
Vampires hit Arienh a lot, Coraline casts silence on the caster (and Arienh’s migraines stop), MK wails on Naradul (?). Airell turns undead a bunch of vampires. Edda flies Arienh to the stones where she misty steps into the dome of force. Visimar misty steps out of the wall of force and silence radius.  Naradul is furious with him.
Arienh reaches out and touches the whirling, inky flames…
Arienh’s vision unravels like she’s seeing everything in intricate geometric patterns. Kellen has talked about this but experiencing it herself is beyond description. She sees the threads of the world and realizes that surrounding each thread, keeping the whole thing together, keeping the threads from bleeding together, is the nothing that is the chained oblivion. This world, the inner and outer planes, all of existence maintains its distinctness because of the chained oblivion. The space between is as important as the things themselves.
She begins to see the tears in the fabric, like watercolors bleeding together. Three open wounds. One to the NE in a vast canyon, and two more to the East, one underwater and one underground. The four unbroken obelisks are stitching the wounds together, but there are numerous tiny tears all across the continent. Every time arcane magic is used it causes another tiny tear, another little place where the threads bleed together, and the distinctness is lost.
Three threads stand out, each connected to an obelisk. From somewhere in the ocean to here, to the grimoire. From the NW to the Crystal Myth mountains, slowly moving North. From the obelisk at Abby Isle to Arienh, to the flame ripped from the souls of the descendants of the betrayers, a flame now surrounding Arienh.
The standing stones are draining the power from the obelisks, keeping them hidden, dampening their presence. The blood of the dragon was used to create the obelisks, to hide them from the rest of the world. It is only in the last 150 years that they began to be discovered and destroyed. Arienh remembers the picture in Castle Greyhawk of the party at the destroyed obelisk. Only Tasha, mother of Iuz was unsurprised and happy about the broken obelisk.
As the inky fire surrounds Arienh, the god-oath becomes part of her. She is now, in essence, the first betrayer, the flaming beacon to Iuz who’s eye will now be fully on her…
The rest of the party keeps fighting, mopping up the vampires.  Visimar teleports away.  Arienh summons a figure made of swirling flame and color and bits of inky blackness. They then teleport out of the force dome in time to see Mornie kill the last big bad (Naradul?).
Inspiration: Querion

Session 89 7-9-2023
Mid morning Waterday Harvester 12. Still.
Airell just revived from the dead.
MK is floating in Memory of Iuz form.
Arienh is not crazy mad anymore, just regular mad.
Turtleback Agatha is surrounded by Onis with her hands up and smiling.
Mornie makes fun of Airell. He grunts.

Mornie looks over at Arienh and asks if she can give her a hug. She notices that Arienh smells different. More earthy, the plants growing from her head smell too. Very pungent.  Mornie asks if they can get rid of the Onis. Arienh says kinda, they are doing what she’s saying but barely.

What does Turtleback has to do with this?
It was kinda her idea. Arienh is stuck with her. She also needs her sword back.
Onis belong to Granny nightshade. They are healing up while resting.
Arienh struck Granny nightshade with the sword and she froze and now she cannot move. If the Onis go back she might get unfrozen?
Mornie asks about the sliver of time.
Granny nightshade had it, Arienh took it and used it. She’s not sure what happened when she used it.
She doesn’t know why the priests went crazy. Mornie describes what happened to Sohrel.
At this moment as Arienh is trying to explain, we see one of the birds land on her shoulder and start talking to her in a language we’ve never heard.
People are coming. Warriors of Pelor and the person from Thieves guild that Airell knows to be very dangerous.
Arienh sends birds to retrieve other birds that were looking for IT crew over the city.
We have a demon problem - MK needs to revert back.
Airell left an owl to watch over the incoming group.

We’re walking back to the dreadwood.

Mornie catches up Arienh on our troubles with the thieves guild.
Kellen says she thought it was a fake priest.
There’s a mouth on the back of Airell’s backpack that says “I saw that!” Triggered by MK rolling her eyes.

Around 30 min later Airell’s owl comes back and conveys what it saw. The 14 people were there. 7 armored in various levels of full armor. Most in full plate, 2 of them very ornately. All with the sun of Pelor. Carena Wavestar looks very dangerous. Two had crossbows, and a bandolier of little bottles, two had metal whips like the one Joza had used. They spent a while serching the area and investigating dead Onis. They are following us now.

We deliberate if we should send Onis for them.
The plan Arienh had was to take Onis to the tower. Arienh wanted to take Saltmarsh to Bitopia, and the wizard had the password and the mirror to go to the Lonely Tower of silent mages  that has a tuning fork for Bitopia.

The piece of time was to get the blood of the dragon to make the standing stones to transport Saltmarsh.
The deal that Arienh had with Granny nightshade that if she can get out before Granny kills her she can have the Onis.
There was also a trade of a sword for the piece of time.
Arienh figured she would come back for the sword eventually.
Kellen asked why Arienh left. She says it’s a complicated question.
Mornie asks what’s up with Arienh having things growing out of her. She didn’t realize she had anything wrong.
Airell disguised self to look like her.
Arienh says it wasn’t intentional.
Arienh made a deal with Turtleback Agatha. Agatha wanted to leave, now she has to stay with Arienh. Agatha gave her information. Agatha says that she also fixed the standing stones so they can do things now.
It needs this particular dragon’s blood because they were carved with this dragon’s blood.
Kellen asks Agatha if she’s gonna betray them.
Q casts Mass Healing word.
Arienh asks if we can just pay the tithe. Airell says it’s too late to pay.
Kellen suggests to go to a demiplane, or to send Onis to the demiplane. And then Kellen realizes to that Onis are smart.

Birds return and say that we’re still followed. They are moving fast and catching up.
Mornie suggests sending at least some of the Onis to slow them down. Airell says we can’t get more hated by the Guild, but it might create consequences with the king.
We decide killing people is a bad move. We pick up pace instead.

Agatha says that the deal was that Arienh invited her to Saltmarsh. Arienh asks what happens if she changes her mind. Agatha says that Arienh commands the Scorn court and wears the crown of it.

The Onis are popping out of invisibility once in a while.

The heat is picking up. We stop, get of the road and find a shaded area. We decide to confront our pursuers. At some point birds come back and tell us that they stopped or the heat. Unfortunately they are onto our scouts. They started firing at the birds, one bird is dead.
Kellen sends her eye to check on them. They are resting and shooting birds. They are not happy to be there.
We move to a different spot that Arienh finds.
Carena perks up and says that she knows we’re on the move. Not immediately. She thinks we’re setting a trap. It looks like she has a locate creature like spell in an object.
Airell and Mornie don’t notice anything spying on us.
Kellen walks off to see if they are tracking her specifically. After a few minutes Karena says “they are splitting up.”. They also have two groups that are not friends with each other. She says she wants to see what’s going on. There’s two they need. From the chatter it’s Airell and Kellen.

We decide to owl express to the northern road.
Coraline suddenly remembers about Yonellis and Edith that were left behind. Arienh offers to send a bird with a note for them to go back to Saltmarsh.

Agatha creepily turns into a spider and sits on Arienh.
Arienh tells Onis to follow as fast as they can, don’t stop along the way.
Karena’s team sees the owls and they start moving. They are running through the heat. We leave them behind quickly.
We reach the road around sunset.
We never see the Onis.
We set camp and bed down for the night. The Onis never show up.
Mornie and Coraline split the night for the watch. Closer to the morning Mornie starts to hear some sounds of rustle and snapping twigs. She goes over to Arienh and wakes her up. She asks Arienh to send an animal and tells her that she’s going invisible and moving in the direction of the noise.
Mornie sees a shape, low to the ground, 4 legs. It’s some kind of large wolf. Two yellow glowing eyes. It doesn’t have a face, instead it’s skeletal with large teeth and leathery skin, patchy fur. There are 3 of them. They smell Mornie.
Mornie starts shooting. Everyone wakes up.
Mornie sees a humanoid shape with an elk skull with horns branching out. It’s watching from the distance crouched on a tree.
Everybody wakes up to fight.
Wolves are attacking, Mornie shoots one right in the mouth. Something invisible claws MKs face making her blind for a second.
There’s also an undead owl bear.
Creepy guy with elk head shoots weird arrows. He’s really scary.
Kellen summons construct.
More wolves show up.
Fight fight fight.
Arienh says that they were sent by Granny Nightshade. The creature replies saying “Granny Nightshade didn’t send me and if you killed me your home will be destroyed”. He says “there were 3 of us, you remember, all of those centuries ago that you were in the court. I came looking for you, the other two took a more direct route and are headed to Saltmarsh if not already there.
Why are they going to Saltmarsh?
That’s where the Standing stones are and your family.
I don’t have any family.
Arienh realizes that Eda’s line is her family.
Short rest is not finished.
Inspiration: Arienh




Session 88 7-2-2023 - MS
Waterday the 12th

Scribbled notes on a water stained paper to Drawmij in Mornie’s cramped handwriting.

Drawmij:

Today we started off just trying to see if we can get close enough to heal Arienh. It went to hell quickly. We get to the house of Airell’s “acquaintance” and see a bunch of unusual birds hanging out on the wall. They take off and Kellen turns Airell into a bird and says, “Follow them, please.”

Then things get from bad to worse.

I see Airell fall after getting hit by an Oni. I tell everyone I’m going after him to make sure he’s all right. I ghost and make a bee-line right for him.

Coraline messages me and it appears that she and Kellen are following. I find where Airell fell, but he appears to have gone invisible and I believe he’s going after those birds. I saw Kellen teleport to a spot in the air and then plummet. She must have transported to Airell, so I have a better idea where he is…he’s flying invisibly on his broom. I keep going. He cannot do this alone.

I see the birds land in a forested area across the water and decide to scout it out. As I approach the area, I see Arienh and Turtleback Agatha in a heated conversation. I see Arienh send back a trio of birds back to the house, which came out of a tree. She looks…different. She appears to have a crown of horns that are growing out of her head. It’s…odd. Whatever she did has totally messed her up, along with whatever the Grimoire did. She pulls out the star sapphire which I know she uses to scry. I tell Airell the scene and tell him to go get everyone else and that I’ll stay put. He, of course, doesn’t go off to get them, and the noise of his stone gets Arienh’s attention. She’s irritated, of course, with me. Airell never likes to take orders….except from Kellen. Odd. Must be because of her hero worship of him.

There is a booming voice that shouts, “There’s an intruder right up here!” Arienh casts something up in the air where Airell is. Three ogre-sized shapes all get lit up by the spell, and I believe it’s faerie fire. Not sure that’s what she intended. One green and two red shapes are now visible and are looking up in Airell’s direction. Suddenly, I see Kellen appear in the air and plummet to the ground. The ogres swing at her and connect. Somehow Kellen then drifts to the ground. I see Arienh’s countenance change to anger. Oh shit.

Another Oni appears in the air and swings in the area where Airell is. I see it connect. Turtleback says nasty things to Kellen as she is falling. Not sure if it did anything as I then see Arienh casts dispel magic on Airell and he pops into vision. Now a blue Oni appears on the ground next to Kellen.

Airell attacks Turtleback Agatha and when his arrow hits, I see Arienh wince and blood starts welling up in the same spot where Turtleback was hit. Uh oh. Arienh casts Hold Person on Airell as I see him get paralyzed. Now multiple Green Oni appear up in the air. This is so not good. We are beyond out-numbered.

I shoot the Blue Oni on the ground next to Kellen with a lot of damage and then yell at Arienh, “Arienh! We’re not here to hurt you!” (first success). She appears to understand me, but then the “mean fog” covers her face.

Kellen throws out the portable hole to let people out. Coraline, Quarion, and MK jump out of the hole. Coraline runs around one of the Oni and Quarion casts hypnotic pattern and catches three of them. He tries to run and another Oni appears and thwacks him. Agatha tries to dispel the hyponic pattern and Kellen yells, “NO!!” and it fizzles.

MK starts wailing on the red Oni next to him. It’s glorious to see her in action. She then starts going after a blue Oni. I run up to Arienh and say, “You do realize that Turtleback Agatha is not a friend of yours.” (success) I see some recognition, but then the fog goes back over her and she says, “You are not the one who should be talking about getting in over her head.” She then shoots Quarion, but he keeps his concentration. Arienh then conjures her pixies. My goddess, she’s so powerful now.

Kellen then yells at Arienh, “This is for your own good.” She casts Force Cage on her. Agatha then dis-spells the hypnotic pattern spell. The red Oni comes back to realization and casts chained lightning. It hits Coraline, Kellen, and MK. The other red Onis do the same thing. What a nasty spell. We’re in dire straights.

Kellen gets thrown ten feet by a red Oni. Now another one appears! How many are there? This is insane! Even more show up and keep hitting us. We are only doing this because Arienh is worth it.

Airell yells at Arienh, “Why are you helping Turtleback Agatha? She helped Skerrin kill your father.” (success) “Look! She has the Scarlet Brotherhood amulet!” (success) He somehow pulled out an amulet from Turtleback and made it look like it came from her. What an insane trick to pull, but it appeared to work.

I yell at Arienh after hurting one of the Oni, “Arienh, you are supposed to be the savior! Not our destruction!” Wrong thing to say. She was pissed.

Kellen, in the middle of all of these Oni, tries to convince Arienh through her religious teachings that what she is doing is not okay. Somehow this gets through Arienh’s senses. (success) She starts looking around, trying to assess the situation.

I get knocked out and am told later that the following happens:
Airell is knocked out
MK went demon and cast fireball on a bunch of Oni. We realize later that Coraline and Quarion have never seen demon MK before.
The pixies tried to polymorph Kellen and Quarion - yeah, that failed
Coraline somehow gets through the Oni to grab Quarion out of the reach of the red Oni.
The blue Oni then decided to blast everyone with cone of cold. Airell was frozen solid.

Coraline healed me and told me to get Quarion to Arienh. I see Airell next to me, frozen solid. I’m torn as to what to do, until I realize that Airell would be pissed if I healed him first before taking advantage of the opportunity to get Arienh back. (He somehow has an honorable streak that comes out at the weirdest of times.)

I turn and see Coraline running through the Oni soaking up the opportunity attacks. I have no idea how she avoided getting hit. Demon MK fireballs again.

MK runs through the Oni and says to Arienh, “Rux Kalmorik sends his regards. The plant, I mean. Oh, and go to Quarion.” Arienh says to MK, “I will kill. Every. Single. One of them.” She nods in the direction of us.

I assess the situation - disengage from the enemies, run and dimension door Quarion to Arienh. He then casts Greater Restoration on Arienh. Arienh shakes off the insanity and I see her starting to remember everything that happened up to this point. Arienh commands the Oni to bring Airell to her, and they are very unhappy about the change in orders.

Turtleback Agatha puts up her hands as the Oni surround her. I ask Arienh if I can go to heal him and she nods her assent. I place my hands on him and cast Revivify. A big breath of relief for all of us.

Oh, so many questions for Arienh.

Inspiration: Airell
Session 87 6-18-2023 - ML
Our party of 8 sets out (IT crew minus Arienh, Yenellis, Quarion, Coraline, Aethed). 3 days on ship later we reach Gradsul. We dock at an Old Gradsul dock near sunset. Pay fee, talk to Pelor people (priest and two thugs). The priest insists on a fee. Kellen doesn’t want to pay. Price goes up. Kellen Eldrich blasts them all into the water. She jumps after them and grabs the priest in the water. The harbor master who was approaching, starts running to the town militia yelling, “Pirates!” Airell follows the Harbor Master and then splits off in the opposite direction.

Coraline asks MK if this is how they usually enter a city. Q and Mornie decide to fold up the boat. People start untying ropes. MK just cuts them.

Kellen disguises self as a Sauhign and says, “We had a misunderstanding.” She swims away as the priest climbs back on the dock.

Mornie and Coraline intimidate the thugs back into the water, they swim away, Mornie shoots right in front of one of the thugs as he swims and the noise is starting to draw attention. People start evacuating the dock.

Kellen swims to the same dock as the thug but beats him there. The party is now split 3 ways.

Airell watches the city guard run to the docks, hears the spread of alarm. This is an unusually over reactive response.

The bulk of the party climbs to a roof as does Kellen (different roof). There are a number of people on the roof already.  Kellen catches up to us. Mornie does the sending stone to Airell and asks for a meeting place.

He says Eel’s end. Split up.

We discuss ways to not split up.

Invisibility is the answer. Everyone except Aethed and disguised Kellen. Traffic on the roof picks up as people commute home in the evening. It takes about 2 hours.

Airell is waiting outside the Eel’s End, disguised. Kellen, Mornie, and Q recognized him.

More plan discussion. Airell and Aethed cross the bridge, the rest of us will hop in the hole and Kellen will teleport to Airell with the hole via talisman.

We move into an ally and Kellen re-ups the invisibility spell. Mornie distracts the kids in the alley, and Kellen acts weird to cover the spellcasting.

Kellen wanders around pan handling while we wait for the time to teleport to Airell. She makes 11 coppers. Kellen now needs to spread the hole so 5 people can get in.

She goes somewhere open and says, “Everybody, are you ready for a magic trick?” And she spreads the hole out. “I will pull an apple out of this cloth!” Coraline jumps in and rummages for something. She comes up with a top and chucks it out of the hole, hitting Kellen in the head. People are definitely gathering around saying “It’s real!” They call for more magic and she rolls up the hole, juggles the top with the mage hand, and disappears.

She appears next to Airell, bleeding from the face, and puts the hole on the wall. Gravity shifts and we all fall sideways. Yenellis is not pleased.

We go to the Laughing Wave inn. Coraline books a room and when the innkeeper, Topher Wisecheeks asks for names she makes some up.

John- Airell
Marcie - Aethed
Petunia - MK
Frankel - Kellen
Petey - Yenellis
Taylor - Q
Henrietta - Arienh Mornie
Coraline - Coraline

We get soup and go up to our room. We attach a rope to the immovable rod in case we need a fast exit. Yenellis and Coraline take the first watch.

Yenellis is worried about what he and Coraline and Q can do to help steer this group to less violent paths. Coraline agrees to keep an eye on Kellen.

Mornie takes the second watch.

Moonday, Harvester 10

Airell talks to Edda

No angel this time. But she’s personally involved in this one so questions have to be on the up an up.

When is Arienh going to make it into Gradsul? Waterday
Where will she be in Gradsul on that day? At the residence of an old acquaintance of yours.
What is the name of this acquaintance? Korlor Mistbringer (very interested in ancient artifacts)
Who is the best person to approach Arienh in her current state of mind? About equal.
What does Arienh want in Gradsul? Transit.

We discuss. Korlor was a teacher at the college of the Sea Mages, there was a mutual parting of ways, and he does his own thing now. He was very interested in Airell’s bow and Mornie’s sword although he doesn’t know that they have them, just that Airell had access to them. Airell was a half elf last time he was there.

Airell says Edda asks how Aethed is doing. This is probably a new experience for Aethed, and she probably doesn’t appreciate our methods. Aethed is like, no shit, I’m going for a walk. Ynellis follows, Mornie follows invisible.

Storm starts. No rain, thunder and lightning. Ben Franklin with his kite (you see it, right?).

Ynellis catches up with Aethed, they see Topher who hasn’t slept, then head for the museum. There are murals everywhere advertising plays. One is based on our adventures in Scant.

Mornie, who has left her pistols behind, goes visible and follows them around the library/museum. She is noticed by the city watch who are here. She goes up to them and asks them about the play, trying to seem like she is local. It seems to work. They chat it up. Then she works her way back to the inn.

Airell disguises himself as a dwarf and heads to Old Gradsul to see if he can figure out why everyone is so jumpy. Kellen wants to go but Airell says no. He goes to the Sticky Mermaid (neutral ground for the thieves guild and all the gangs of the city). Used to be run by ***, but today Joza is in her place (Joza was trained by her).

A few days ago, half of the priests of Heronidus all had seizures and fell ill, started spouting jibberish, and haven’t recovered. (Not all priests are clerics). This has freaked people out. Lots of theories being thrown about. All the priests have been saying the same thing, probably the same as Sorrel.

Joza is starting to watch Airell. He pays his tab, leaves, and messages Joza: “Looks like you got a promotion, did you have to kill anyone for it?”

She responds, “What did you do?? Who is dumb enough to fuck with the Blind Father?”

He returns to the Inn slowly.

Kellen stakes out Korlor’s house for a little while. Seems unoccupied. She puts an arcane eye in the house. Kitchen room with drying meat. Another room is filled with fog. Door to interior courtyard, no bedrooms here. Lots of fog filled halls. There’s a library, dining room, etc. No people, no teleportation circle. Very neat and tidy, clean and cared for. She looks for a good spot for a stake out. There isn’t really one. She returns and tells us what she found.

Fog is wards and guards spell, there was no trigger that Kellen seemed to hit in the kitchen, didn’t go into the fog hallways. Airell knows there was a basement under the library.

MK shops for nice food. 3 gold worth. Makes a lovely meal.

Coraline asks Topher why he isn’t sleeping. Apparently he only sleeps every fourth day.

Godsday, Harvester 11

Rain starts in the night and it is pouring. The ceiling leaks. Right on Aethed.

Mornie talks with Aethed. They play cards. Aethed is marginally less pissed off by the end. Mornie asks questions about the history of Aethed’s family. Aethed warms up to her a little.

Waterday, Harvester 12

Long rest!

The rain has stopped, the city is busy early. Kellen talks to Topher. What’s up with the Blind Father? He’s the Bishop to the temple of Pelor. He was a priest, got promoted, kinda. He decided that the merchants, traders, etc. needed to tithe 10 percent to the war effort. So they made him a Bishop about a year ago.

We check out and go to Kolor’s house. Kellen sends her eye to the library, but it puffs out at the threshold. There is a murder of crows that seem to be eying us. Mornie walks a ways to see if the crows are tracking her. They are not, but one is watching the rest of us. The bird that was watching us takes off for the North East, followed by all the rest of the dozen crows.

Kellen turns Airell into a bird and he follows from a distance. He is quickly bisected by a bloody ax that appears from nowhere. He plummets 40 ft.

The ax is held by a creature that appears in the air. Ogre sized, red, demon looking. Then it disappears again. It’s a giant known as an Oni. The red ones are the warrior Oni. They can all shapechange, turn invisible, and fly. It was headed after the crows before it disappeared again.

Inspiration:

Session 86 - 5-21-2023
 Earthday, Harvester 6
Q has decided that his path lies with this fascinating group of people and so we are joining in their quest to find their friend! I’m still unclear on what she is actually doing, but the rest of the IT crew (as they call themselves) seems adamant that they find her. I’m not certain that they know what she is up to either, but we are certainly on a grand adventure now!
We started the day with a three hour horse ride (my first time on a horse! It was… uncomfortable), and we have now arrived at Saltmarsh. It is busy, with a long line to enter the city, but the people here all know the IT crew so we get to skip the line. Strangely, they don’t seem to recognize the Halfling.
They asked about the druid and it turns out she was here a few days ago. Apparently, she turned into a dragon and ate some people. There seems to be disagreement as to what exactly happened. Regardless, the graveyard is a mess. Something big came through here.
We are headed to the town hall (I assume to find the people in charge here) and have run into an acquaintance of the group, Hannah Rist. According to her, a lady named Ma Garret killed a guy named Geddick who was the druid’s acolyte and a bear. The Garrets pretended not to know that the bear was Geddick. The townspeople pretended to not know that Ma Garret was running a debt trap. Geddick resisted the debt trap so Ma Garret got rid of him. Some one named Sir Darvin left with a lot of the town watch because the king summoned them, so Ma Garret wanted to have her son elected to the council instead. Still unclear what this has to do with the smashed up graveyard.
The locals here have a unique drink that I have now tried. It was appalling, but I enjoyed the chance to experience some local flavor.
Apparently, the Halfling used to be taller.
Another group of people has approached us. It seems to be the council members we were looking for. How convenient! One of them has a very injured looking hand.
Mornie is very good at hugs. This group is simply lovely.
They are talking about someone who used to be dead (Etta? Edda? They talk to her somehow). The Halfling is named Airell and he used to be dead? I am confused, perhaps I’ll ask about it later.
Q and Y and I discuss whether or not Q can heal the injured blacksmith, Mafera, but Y thinks it’s not a good use of our resources.
Another new drink: Coffee! It is very strange, but an enjoyable new experience. Most people seem to prefer other drinks. Kellen and the mayor have drunk most of the pot.
The mayor, Gellen, is very concerned about getting their ship, the Falling Star back. I assumed the ship belonged to the IT crew but it is actually the town’s? Another big ship (the Fury of Gradsul) is also off with the King. They are concerned with a certain Yusgrolir who has taken over a nearby town (the Styes) and they are worried he will attack here next.
The priest of St. Cuthbert (Hubroren) is giving us more information on the druid. The druid became a dinosaur and the priest fought alongside her. People here have never seen a dragon or a dinosaur and thus confused the events. The druid, Arienh, went to bury the head of her former acolyte, Hubroren accompanied her, and Ma Garret picked a fight. Arienh tried to leave, but Ma Garret banished her while the others attacked Hubroren. Arienh came back as a dinosaur and bit off a bunch of heads. It seems pretty justified to me. Ma Garret seems like an unpleasant person. That said, I can see why they don’t want Arienh running around crazy. She could do some serious damage apparently.
The next day Arienh turned into a bird and headed North East. This was two days ago. She seems to have been headed towards a hag named Turtleback Agatha. We also know she was planning to see Granny nightshade, an archfey (?) and the mother of the hags. Her home, Scornkeep is to the North.
Mornie is updating the council on Arienh’s condition and wants them to keep it a secret. They made decisions that had consequences and now they are dealing with it.
They are talking about the dead lady again, wanting Airell to ask her questions. It seems to be similar to what Q does with his chess board. The rest of the council doesn’t seem to understand this. Airell tries to explain it to the priest. Is the priest not very intelligent? Airell is explaining as you would to a child. It is very kind of him to take the time to help the priest.
The mayor has agreed to get Q diamonds so he can heal Mafera. The mayor seems oddly unhappy about this.
Mornie is asking for advice about what path to take. Now they are telling childrens’ stories about Granny nightshade.
Mornie has received a message from their ship. The captain (who is apparently a former priest of Heronious) has collapsed and keeps saying, “The daughter of the betrayers (Arienh) has undone the father of the invincible (Heronious, patron god of Keoland).”
Tale of Heronious: In the long ago time (1500 ish years), a hero named Stratis killed a dragon named Stradus Lethregal. The death of the dragon created the dreadwood. The hero was elevated, got to get it on with the mother goddess who birthed a new god named Heronious.
So Arienh must have done something to Stradus Lethregal and messed with the story. Time to go back to their house to discuss further.
I do not like the bridge. Y reeeeally doesn’t like the bridge.
Airell is asking questions of the dead lady (who is hiding from her minder and holding Airell under water. “You have to ask the same questions again so I can give you yes or no answers”):
1.       What is the fastest way to intercept Arienh? Gradsul
2.       What does ‘undoing the father of the invincible’ mean? Heronious doesn’t exist anymore
3.       Is there a way to undo it? Stop her. She is walking around with a moment of time in her pocket: the moment the dragon died
4.       Can we put the moment back? Yes. If you can get it from her
5.       A) When will Yusgrolir attack? YOU HAVE BIGGER PROBLEMS. Arienh is about to use the obelisk near Saltmarsh to rip a hole in the world. Sigh. At some point, but not this year.
B) What can we do to incapacitate Arienh to bring her back? You have to convince her, but there will be some fighting. You’ll have to use the *eyeroll* power of friendship.

We had dinner. So. Much. Dinner.
Gellan brought diamonds. Q healed Mafera.
Mornie seems to be trying to help the housekeep find more purpose in life. Perhaps opening a wedding venue? Amanda seems a little high strung, but perhaps that will be a good fit for her.
Keledeck is still gone. How sweet that they all care about the neighbors.
Now they are arguing about boats.
We will take Q’s boat.

Harvester 7
We were packing up when Gellen showed up. He said another priest wants to talk to us. Wellgar, priest of Procan. He will meet us by the shore.
Airell is warning Gellen that Arienh might try to use the obelisks and they should set a guard.
Wellgar has brought another lady, Aethed Oweland. She seems to be related to the dead lady who also apparently talks to Wellgar too. She came to him in a vision yesterday and said, “Some dumb c*** (Airell says she doesn’t mean him as he doesn’t have one. Makes sense, I wonder who she was talking about?) stopped asking the right questions. The matriarch of the bloodline of the betrayers (Aethid apparently) must accompany the IT crew to find Arienh.” Perhaps this is to help with the convincing part as Aethid and Arienh are related.
Aethid doesn’t seem excited about this opportunity to adventure. How strange.
Wellgar says we will have wind and rain today.
He was right.
Kellen plans to dream at someone named Joza tonight. Kellen can visit people through dreams. How fascinating.

Harvester 8
Kellen’s account of the dream: “So I saw Joza, she looks great, I told her Airell is a halfling now and showed her an illusion, she thought it was very funny, did you know his nickname used to be squirt? Anyway, she says she will keep her eye out for Arienh, but she can’t really talk to the Blind Father because he thinks she killed Airell, but she actually didn’t, so bringing up Arienh would lead to awkward questions. Why was Joza supposed to kill Airell? Oh, because Airell used to work for the Blind Father, but he said, nope gonna work on my own, and the Blind Father said I don’t think so and sold him down the river then sent Joza to finish him off. But she is so nice she didn’t do it, she just told the Blind Father she did. She wanted to know how much we would pay her and I said 200 gold, and she thought that was just adorable, but she kinda wants 2,000 gold? We can totally do that right? She said to meet her at the Creaky Hammock, it’s a tavern in Gradsul.”
Airell seems very upset that Kellen told Joza he was a halfling now. Kellen wants to know if she should disguise herself as Airell for the meeting. He thinks this would be funny but pointless.

Harvester 9
Gradsul is in sight!
Inspiration: Mornie (with honorable mentions to Kellen and Airell)
Reminder: DM is reconsidering the long rest situation

Session 85 - 5-6-2023
Evening, Moonday, Harvester 3rd. It is the same fucking day…

Finding Arienh is #1 priority.
Mornie pulls out the sending stone and asks Arienh to come back.She hears back a high pitched screech and nothing else.
Q has a good suggestion that we can jump in the hole and Kellen can teleport everyone.
Sohrel says she will go South, and wait for us to return. There’s a possibility that Anthala returns and attacks the ship.

After some light healing we go. Everyone piles into the hole. Kellen teleports.
Kellen appears in a house, back at the village, scaring some poor villagers and their children.
After some hand waving, broken Seloise conversation and mind reading they piece together what happened: Arienh tossed the amulet and the sending stone before going through the tree. Kids found and picked up both and were playing with them. They got scared of the sending stone and tossed it in the ocean.
Locals don’t like elves, they’ve been fighting with them for a while (not so much fighting as the Elves exiled them from their island and won’t let them return), so IT crew and friends go to the beach to wait for FS to return.
Airell and Coralline go for a swim to find the sending stone. It takes a while, but they succeed.
Mornie calls Sohrel back. They are only 2 hours away.

On the beach:
MK complains about her new spice pouch is not as good as the old one. It has too much of Greyhawk flavor (too much caraway, juniper, and watercress.  Not enough basil, cardamon, and turmeric).
Q is playing his Commune chess. It takes him a few tries, but he manages to learn that Arienh is in Saltmarsh.
A group of warriors from the village approaches. Mornie talks to them, and they settle nearby.
Airell goes to talk to them. Asks about the magical tattoos, and learns a lot.
Jasdarzoud, the man who did the tattoos, tried to go back to their homeland through the Gate of Glass. It is rumored to have been built by Lendor himself and leads to Lo Denek, the City of Glass.
Many people tried to find it, especially spellwroughts.  Most of the spellwroughts didn’t get along with Anthala. He encouraged people to turn away from their magic.
Eventually FS comes back.
Coralline drums a song of rest.
Mornie asks if we can dock here for the night. Locals are not happy about it, but admit there’s nothing they can do to stop it. FS sails out.

Next day - Finally!
Augury says that destroying the book to help Arienh is a woe. There goes that plan…
Mornie calls Drawmij. He’s terrible at Sending. He says he’s very far away. Asks Kellen to Dream.
The day is filled with anxiety and a lot of blue.
That night Kellen casts Dream to Drawmij. He was running around burning the spy network that Nenredhe had. He’s far north in the crystalmists. He has a lead on Mordenkainen. Drawmij’s dragon turtle was the mother of Anthala’s dragon turtle.
Drawmij shares 2 teleportation circles: one in Seaton (house of Jux, D’s friend who was murdered by the Plar of Hool) but he’s not sure if it still exists, and one in Gradsul in his mansion.
Kellen asks for a Demiplane to have fun with. He shows her the Green Room.
He says that giant war is raging, and they are united by the Fist of the Furnace, who is a giant connected to Chained Oblivion.
She asks him to get some giant skin if possible.
He heard the myth about Lo Denek. It’s real. But it’s unlikely that he’s being nice to people at all.

Next morning:
Downpour. It’s weird not to have a weather channel.
Airell casts Contact Other Plane: Eda has an angel supervisor now. Apparently she’s been too helpful.
What is Arienh planning to do in the next couple of days?  She’s collecting components.
Where is Arienh right now? On her way to Scornkeep.
Where is Jazdarzoud? (Eda is surprised). Where Mornie and Kellen want to go.
What is in the center of Rauxes that is pulling people in. A destroyed obelisk.
What is Tasha’s current plan? To betray her son.
Airell asks if Eda wants him to tell anything to her grandsons. She looks at the angel and says to tell them to keep doing what they are doing. She says “do what you can to save her. She’s the best hope you have.”
Kellen remembers from reading the Saltmarsh book about Scronkeep. It’s a fairy tale about the Depths of Dreadwood.
Kellen goes for a swim.
MK makes a nice dinner.
Kellen dreams to Drawmij again. They are flying this time.
Scornkeep is a home of a hag named Granny Nightshade. She’s the hag of the Dreadwood. Mother of all the hags in Dreadwood.
He says there’s a road from Burle that heads North, road ends at a Lake called Janustrum Depths, head north from there until you reach Scornkeep.
Arienh is either suicidal or is planning to make a deal. He doesn’t think Arienh can take on the hag.
Drawmij agrees to Scry on Seaton circle, and Sending Stone to Mornie.
Kellen doesn’t feel sleepy after that conversation, and goes on to practice her sleight of hand. She fails.
Drawmij says circle still exists, it’s a parlor now, people still live there.

To Seaton!
Kellen is using a scroll to cast Teleportation Circle. It’s pre-dawn, the room is dark. There are some books and maps, a fireplace, a nice sofa. In a new space there’s a picture of the battle with Skerrin. The rug is stained with the circle. There are trinkets and mementos in this room.
Airell takes a longsword and leaves a dead jellyfish instead of it.
IT crew (and Q and Caroline) manages to sneak through the front door.
Mornie uses her coin to get to Eliander in Sea Keep. He can help.
Mornie asks for horses and diamond dust. He says he can give us horses, and diamonds can be obtained at Kellen’s father.
Mornie also mentione that we used teleportation circle at Jux manor and it ruined their rug.
He asks to bring FS back when possible. The war is not going well.
There’s been developments. The king put out general summons. The dwarf Yusgrolir conquered the Styes.
Kellen is nervous about seeing her family, but it turns out okay. Her dad even has the diamonds and dust. (300gp of diamonds, and 200gp of diamond dust)
Horses are ready - onto Saltmarsh.



Session 84 - 4-15-2023
Midafternoon, Moonday, Harvester 3rd.
It’s hot. Reeaalll hot. The falling star is ready to be underway anytime.
Dragon turtle – can swim 40 ft/round, darkvision
Airell pops out the owl to keep watch for  the Turtle.
MK sees that underwater visibility drops off really fast because the water gets deep fast.
Ritual cast walk on water and water breathing. Arienh takes talisman (4d to ability checks and saving throws if you fail 5x each) and potion of heroism (bless) and Coraline takes the potion of hill giant strength). Q casts death ward on Arienh. Q and Arienh cast freedom of movement on everyone except Arienh. Arienh casts protection from energy on herself and then uses the pearl to get the spell back.
Airell puts the owl away because no flying allowed.
MK stays next to Arienh.
Mornie is invisible and ready to ghost at the slightest provocation.
Mornie, Airell, MK keep watch down, Arienh, Kellen, Q keep watch up.
10 min into the walk: Kellen twitches. Drawmij’s voice tells her to “Cast dream tonight. Have Mornie message me after your sleep. I’ll sleep after that. It took me forever to figure out who… Fuck.” She says “May not have spells left, how about tomorrow?”
Con saves, we all pass.
Another 10 min pass. We are about a mile out.
Team looking down spot an upwelling of something headed straight up for us. Turtle time!
Mornie ghosts, Airell shouts a warning, MK bait and switches with Arienh to give her + 6 to AC.
Turtle steam attack. Ouch.  We know that we are obscured from the  Turtle so we know that the druid is telling it where we are. He is definitely one of the birds circling overhead.
MK learns about refraction as her arrows all miss in the water. The turtle attacks MK and Kellen. MK sentinels back and tries to trip attack it. SUCCESS!! It is now prone.
MK is getting her revenge against turtles at last.
It attacks Coraline. She is unconscious. Q mass cure wounds and blesses MK. Mornie attacks, does lots of damage. It attacks Airell.
Airell uses his bow that wants to kill the turtle and misses. The bow purrs with the voice of the Rakshasa. Airell’s spiritual weapon also misses. The Turtle dives.
Arienh casts mirror image and runs.
A bird turns into the dragon druid.
Coraline casts hypnotic pattern and burns one of the turtle’s saves. She bait and switches with Q and gives him +6 to AC.
Dragon is 60 ft in the air and 80 ft away.
Kellen holds banishment.
More attacking.
Dragon approaching. Kellen tries to banish both the dragon and turtle and both have to use legendary saves. The dragon rains fire on us.
Arienh shoots the dragon with magic missiles and it makes con saves to keep the dragon form.
MK trips the dragon out of the air and it falls, then shoots the turtle.
Airell dives under the water and swims to the dragon turtle to attack it. Does this mean we fail the challenge?
Kellen mind slivers the turtle who fails.
Coraline sees Airell dive in and follows, misty stepping and swimming to attack the turtle. She is a grinning gremlin of attacking whirlwind hammer bashing. She crits left and right, action surges, and deals 114 damage on her turn.
MK’s turn to wail on the dragon. Another flurry of furious fighting, doing 137 damage! The dragon tries to fly away, but MK sentinel attacks for another 18 and the dragon can’t move.
The dragon lands in front of Arienh and transforms back into Anthala.
He says “You lost” and Arienh is like “How was this fair??”
Turtle swims away, Coraline and Airell follow. Airell attacks it.
Anthala says “Call off your friends, this is over!” She says “I don’t know what is going on!!”
Q casts hypnotic pattern on Turtle, Airell, Kellen. They all pass.
Turtle attacks Airell.
Arienh flips out, says “None of you understand what is going on in the world, Reyna doesn’t get it, you refuse to believe us about Iuz, we were supposed to be the protectors of saltmarsh and here we are on the other side of the world. If none of you are willing to protect Saltmarsh then I’m out.” And she wildshapes into a bird and flies away.
Mornie runs up to Anthala and says, “What the heck is going on, why did she leave?” He looks surprised and then resolute. “Because she’s a child.”
Arienh keeps flying back towards the island we started on.
Airell keeps attacking. And getting hit.
Coraline asks what is going on and MK says “I’m pretty sure the fight is over, but Airell has lost his fucking mind.”
Kellen banishes Airell.
Anthala drops into the water and becomes the dragon again. He says to keep Airell away and he and the turtle leave.
Kellen tries to teleport to Arienh, but it doesn’t work.
Q makes a boat.
Kellen drops banishment and grapples Airell.  Airell asks if we beat the dragon turtle and Kellen says yes.
Airell says “It kept coming after me and it just had to be stabbed.” He is being totally straight forward and seems like he is telling the truth. Kellen lets him go and princess carries Airell out of the water and brings him to Q’s boat.
Mornie asks Airell why he swam and gets the same answer. He seems super genuine even though this bloodthirstiness is not normal. Kellen wants to take away Airell’s bow. Airell says no. And jumps off the boat. Mornie and MK tty to stop him. A kerfuffle ensues.
Q tries to hold person on Airell. It doesn’t work. Airell, “You are crazy.” And dimension doors, but Kellen counterspells and MK tries to take the bow away. Mornie tries to knocks him out. Kellen yanks the bow away. What a clusterfuck. What the hell has happened to everyone?
Airell’s eyes go glassy and his pupils shrink in inhuman fury. Q holds person. They knock him out. Airell I mean.
Meanwhile Arienh flies to the shore and transports via plants to an unknown location.
Q sets out some chess pieces and starts casting commune via chess.
1.       What happened to Airell? He carries a curse of unbridled rage.
2.       How do we fix him? By removing the curse or by banishing the source of the curse.
3.       Why did Arienh leave? Arienh also labors under a curse of madness caused by a wound in this world.
Well. Ok…
Mornie and Kellen put together that Arienh read the Grimoire.
Q casts greater restoration on Airell.
Airell wakes up and realizes when he got weird. He was mad about the ‘Hands of Airell’ prank when he normally wouldn’t be. That was after he attuned to the sword Kellen gave him. He yells, “It was Kellen’s fault! This sword is cursed!” Meaning the sword Kellen gave him.
After an argument, Airell gets his bow back and it purrs at him, “Good work.”
Mornie gives Airell a healing potion.
Airell is still mad that they stabbed him. He asks if he can jump off the boat and swim to the falling star now? Yes.
When he gets back to the ship Sorell asks, “You didn’t leave them did you? Are they ok?” “They knocked me out. They will be here is a while, I don’t know what’s going on with Arienh” As he walks into the cabin and shuts the door.
The boat arrives at the ship eventually and Sorell says “What the hell is going on? We saw Arienh fly in as  bird and then walk into that tree.”
Kellen has a plan to find Arienh. Teleport to the talisman and put Greater restoration in a ring of spell storing.
Mornie goes to talk to Airell. She brings an ‘I’m sorry’ shot which Airell takes then slugs Mornie in the face. She knows the ritual so she’s expecting it. “Ok, let’s do this again.” He hits again. Misses the third.
Mornie says, “I had to. I know you don’t think that I did, but I did. I think you would have done the same for me.” Airell, “You should have tried harder to figure it out first.” Mornie admits she over reacted, but Airell was freaking her out.
She tells him Arienh was cursed too. He figures out it was the Grimoire right away. He asks where she went. Mornie doesn’t know.
All gather on deck. Mornie sending stones to Drawmij. Needs to be tomorrow night. Drawmij: Where are you?
Airell asks Ynellis about ghost step tatoos and if he knows anyone who can do them. Not really.
Mornie asks if they know anything about the chained oblivion. Yes, it’s connected to the corruption of the Lendore isles. Q’s riddle to solve has to do with helping a practitioner of the old faith (Arienh).
As we sail out to sea with no idea what just happened or what to do next, we end there.
To do:
Ask Arienh via sending stone where she is.
Inspiration: Arienh and Airell

Session 83 - 4-1-2023
Waterday, Goodmonth 19
Anthala Quen is on our deck, holding a fishing spear. He looks like a kindly old man..obviously appearances are deceiving in this case. He has Lendorian tattoos going up his arms - some type of barrier tattoo that’s very powerful.

He’s polite in his greeting to Arienh. He appears quite surprised by her surname. The name “Legrun Fisher” is mentioned, and Kellen realizes that it’s Arienh’s great-grandfather. He puts together that Arienh is the great-granddaughter of Legrun. He says, “Reyna sure knows how to cut deep, doesn’t she.” Kellen blurts out, “Oh wait, you are from Saltmarsh?” He affirms that yes, he is. “Are we going to fight you?” He says, “Well, there has been a challenge made.”

Interesting fact - he’s not the Archdruid of Sheldamar Valley. He’s been the Great Druid of Alyssa for seven years.Turns out Reyna is not happy about this and he extrapolates that she sent Arienh to challenge him. The dragon turtle does move the ship a bit, and it gets everyone on edge. Anthala calls the dragon turtle “Shendayath.” It speaks Aquan and tells Anthala that there’s a taste of fey in the water. Anthala leaves to go locate somebody and turns into the dragon again.

Kellen wants to save some of the people. She begs Arienh to cast Walk on Water. Arienh makes the statement that we need to avoid attacking the dragon turtle and the golden dragon. Airell and Kellen go into the water to follow. Anthala bursts out of the water and it causes a bunch of screams. Arienh, MK, and I notice that Anthala has a ring that is holding the fishing spear when he’s in the dragon form. Hmmm…

Anthala yells, “Elvin kin. Are you People of the Testing?” I hear some of them reply from the lifeboat, “Yes, we are. Why are you attacking?” Anthala replies, “I did not mean to target you. I honor our alliance. Why do you travel with the people of the Scarlet sign?” They reply something I cannot hear. He says, “I will take you to safety. Allow me to pluck you from the waters.” Anthala picks up the boat and flies back to the Falling Star.

The dragon turtle then opens its mouth spitting out a steam cone. The remaining bodies die within that cone. Kellen turns a bit to help those who were out of that steam bath. She rescues two in her cool strength armor. Airell goes investigating. I’m sure that he is checking out the wreck.

Anthala nicely deposits the three elves and the boat on our deck. One of the elves packs up the boat into a box. Anthala turns back into himself and thanks Arienh for permitting the delay. He asks for us to take the elves. The elves are likely from the Spindrift Isles.

He informs us that the Falling Star is made by the Dukshani (Lordship of the Isles.) The Lordship is a realm, the Dukshani are a people and a place.

Anthala tries to convince Arienh that she shouldn’t have to challenge him because he’s not an Archdruid. He says, “The world deserves better than Reyna Yargrove if the world is going to be saved from the Black Flame of Nothingness.” Arienh flinches at the reference because of the connection to her dreams. He asks her if she has had visions of this, and she says yes. He is taken aback by this revelation.

Anthala states that he can meet her in a few days at a special place where they can talk privately. I can tell that Arienh is unsettled by this entire conversation. It’s obvious that Anthala hates Reyna and he’s not hiding anything. He truly believes everything that he’s saying, and it’s possible that he’s a fanatic for his cause. That’s a pretty big red flag for me - he’s dangerous because he truly believes in everything that he’s doing - including the rampage of his dragon turtle on the Scarlet Brotherhood.

Airell and Kellen return. He tells us to go to the western coast of Ansabo isle and he’ll meet us in three days. Kellen repudiates Anthala for allowing his dragon turtle to eat all the innocent people. He says that anyone who sails in the Tilva Strait is under treaty with the Scarlet Brotherhood and that he is at war with them.

The People of the Testing are a religious belief among the Elves. They are trying to earn the forgiveness of their Creator God “Corellon Ralethian” and to understand the mysteries of what they need to do. This is the official religion of the Spindrift Isles. The Elves and Anthala have an understanding as they have a common enemy.

We meet the elves - . We agree to take them to the Elven Fleet before the Spindrift Isles.

MK learns that Anthala has more hit points than 147 and he has an AC of 18 (this is with the barrier tattoo protection.)

Yennelis Alderaeld is the older Elf, the female is Coraline Ostoroth, and the young Elf is Quarion Amastacia. Mornie has the IT Crew introduce themselves. Coraline is very interested in Kellen’s armor. Quarion is a cleric of Sehenin Moonbow (the wife and offspring of Corellon Ralethian.) All of these elves are acolytes of Sehenin Moonbow. Coraline is a warrior who fought in the Lendorian campaigns. We have no idea what that means, but we have heard of Lendor. Vohen finds them a place to rest as well as the two new crew.

Turns out Quarion just finished his testing journey and has received a riddle to solve. He needs to go to the Lendor Isle. Kellen realizes that Quarion is actually a half-elf. Yennelis is a Sensor where he can calm others. Kellen has no clue what that is. A Sensor helps those who have emotional scars. The Lendorian campaign is currently going on and is the reason why we cannot go to the Spindrift Isles.

We talk to Sohrel about next steps and we set sail for Ansabo Isle.

Kellen casts Dream on Arienh so that she can talk to Reyna. Arienh asks her what she knows about the Black Flame of Nothingness - not much. She also wants to know why she has to offer a challenge. Reyna says that Arienh is Nehrule’s shadow and she’s supposed to usher the faith into the new spring. Why Anthala Quen? Reyna pauses. She says that Arienh can choose whomever she wants, but she would prefer that it not be the other two because Anthala is a murderer. Reyna said that she wanted Anthala Quen to be the Archdruid of Shaldamar Valley to protect the people there. He has moved on to murder ships full of the Selouise. Arienh brings up that there is an Archdruid position that’s open. Reyna asks how the meeting went. Arienh says that he was very polite. Reyna clarifies that he is still an Archdruid because it’s part of following the Old Faith. She states that she believes Arienh would be in a better position as Archdruid because she’s not going around killing fields of sailors. If he would be demoted to the level of druid, by the laws of the Old Faith, he has much less discretion in how he behaves. Reyna wants to try to rehabilitate him, but she’s not confident that he will change. Reyna says that he twists things to fit his beliefs, even if that means saying that he doesn’t believe in something anymore which supports what he feels he needs to do - like killing off people.

Airell tells us what history he knows about the Lendor Isles. The Lendorians (who are Selouise), were refugees and moved into the southern isle of the Lendor Isles. The Elves live on the top four isles. In the last 10 years the Elves invaded the bottom Lendor Isle and kicked all of the humans out. Lots of the Selouise refugees fled to the coasts nearby and the Lordship of the Isles.

Quarion is quite an odd fellow. He makes the crew uneasy by going around, touching their shoulders, and giving them blessings. I talk to him about it, but I’m not sure he completely understood. Not much for social skills. He also will wait outside our door and try to listen to our conversations. Kinda creepy, but makes him fit right in with Kellen and her lack of social awareness.

It takes us the rest of the day and two more days to reach Ansabo. We arrive late in the day of Freeday, Goodmonth 21. The cove has sheer cliffs and the vegetation is quite tropical. There’s a small sandbar and then a bunch of rocks. We could stay and fix the ship here as there appears to be enough trees to help with our repairs. No sight of Anthala. Our crew is totally traumatized by what has happened and refuse to leave the ship. IT Crew, however, not so much.

MK and I go out to hunt and get the lay of the land. We get an ape and bring it back to skin it and eat. Desperately wanted something better than fish.

Starday, Goodmonth 22
We hear a knock on the door and it’s Dalem. He asks for Arienh. Anthala is on top of the cliff, waiting for her.

We join Arienh to talk to Anthala. He really is not a liar.

Anthala tells us that Reyna trained him and that she told him that he was her chosen successor. He asks Arienh if she said the same thing to her. Anthala says that Ferrin was his successor. He took over the Sea Grove after Anthala left. Arienh tells him that Ferrin was her teacher.

Anthala asks if she wants to hear the true story of the Old Faith. Kellen does interrupt a couple of times trying to clarify, and Anthala cuts her off saying that he’s really here for Arienh. Ferrin didn’t tell Arienh a lot about the Old Faith. He hadn’t even told her about Reyna.

The Elves created the rituals that the druids still use today to appease the world when the monsters first came. The rituals have changed slightly, e.g. salt water is now used instead of blood. Whenever a new species came through Because the Elves were from the Feywild, they were viewed as upsetting the balance of things. This happened as well The Elves used this as an against to repel the Flan when the Flan came through. Humans start performing the rituals of the Old Faith. They were willing to sacrifice themselves for this. Eventually the rituals were modified to what they are now.  The last High Druid was killed a hundred years ago when Iuz cut his head off. Anthala believes that the Old Faith doesn’t have a place anymore and needs to change. Reyna has organized things before where Orcs and Goblins were targeted to be exterminated in the Pomarsh region, which ended poorly for the humans. He fought in this war as her archdruid - called the Hateful Wars. He’s very, very angry with Reyna and her view of the Old Faith as she’s promoting the killing of entire groups of people.

He left the Old Faith behind. She didn’t accept that and keeps expecting him to come back. Reyna confronted him when he came back from the Feywild and didn’t believe him that he didn’t want to come back.

Arienh asked why he took the ancient title if he doesn’t believe in the Old Faith. He said that the Old Faith still serves a purpose. He believes that magic is the reason why the world is breaking. Every single spell adds to the destruction.

Anthala goes on to make it clear that he dismisses Reyna’s Old Faith, but not the true Old Faith.

Dragons are the original settlers of the world. They are physical manifestations of concepts. Nal….(whatever the name is) was the concept of loyalty. Sindareth (the dragon turtle) was rescued by Anthala when he was a baby. Sindareth’s mother was the concept of a stormy sea. Sindareth was rescued from the Feywild raised by Anthala in the Feywild, so that he could grow to maturity without much time passing here in the Prime plane. There are many dragon turtle eggs throughout the world, but they will not hatch until Sindareth is gone. His mother died a few years ago. Anthala was gone for 12 spent 800 years raising Cindoarrath in the Feywild which translated to 80 years in this world.   He and Cindoarrath returned every 12 years (Greyhawk time), spending a year here, to prevent the Feywild from transforming them. Turns out he made a deal with a hag…whom we know! Turtleback Agatha.

Arienh wants to know if her challenge is accepted. Anthala states that if she wins, he’ll be humbled and go back to being a druid. If he wins, he’ll make her an Archdruid under him. He’ll try to convince her (5 years). And if she isn’t convinced, he’ll let her go her own way. She accepts the challenge.

Anthala is not worried about Iuz. He just calls him a dead demi-god. He then mentions that the Scarlet Brotherhood is the immediate threat as something just happened in Ekul. We laugh. Boy, he has no clue what has really happened. Arienh confirms about the splinter group joining with the Unchained Oblivion. There’s a lot of talk, but it comes down to Anthala still doesn’t believe Iuz is truly a threat, but he will let us go and destroy the Grimoire of the Deep. But…shocker, he didn’t even know what the Grimoire was!

He wants to have the challenge at Jehlum Isle. He will accompany us back to the ship and be with us for the trip itself.

He comes back with us to the ship and shows us on the map where we are going. Arienh is told that she should have Water Walk ready for the challenge. We see him leave by walking through one of the trees.

We reach the location on Moonday, Harvester 3. Small village of about 100 people. They have Lendorian tattoos. Turns out one of them is a master tattoo artist.

Soldiers and Elders come out. They are very suspicious and I go out with the IT Crew to greet them. Didrelos introduces himself, after a little pushing from me for them to be polite. I tell them why we are there and we get clear instructions that our crew can go onto the beach, but no further.

The challenge: She is to walk to the rocky island, and he is going to try to stop her. She cannot fly or swim. Walking only. She cannot turn back, and she has to finish this before night. Yielding can happen at any time. Her friends can accompany her, but the rules still apply to us.

Anthala turns into a bird and flies away.

The island is three miles away. It would take two hours to walk there with the choppy waters. Sunset is three and a half hours away.

The Elves join us.

Inspiration: Arienh


Session 82 - 3-18-2023
The first three weeks of the ship trip are pretty boring, but the temperature is definitely increasing. At night, it doesn’t get cooler than 100. Ugh. Kellen does make a lot of chilled water for the crew which prevents heat stroke.

Airell’s group “Airell’s Hands” “story” starts spreading around the boat, and then more groups start forming, just as I hoped. There’s now a Kellen’s Sages Group, which is a book club, Arienh’s Explorers Group, which start cataloging ocean life, the tides, etc., Mornie’s Officers, navigators, etc., MK’s Embroiders, and Miss Stepanoph’s Swift Steppers, those who want to learn how to fight. Ruks Kalmorik, the awakened plant given to MK, has become the ship’s mascot. It has absolutely no idea about privacy, which is creating some funny situations.

A hurricane delayed our trip and we had to wait it out in a cove for three days - all said and done, five additional days.

Arienh has another vision during the storm:
Cold winds, so she’s freezing
Standing in the field of the Sea Grove
She tries to go to the point, but the strong breezes shove her back. There are faces in the wind, including Mr. Dory, Nenredhe, etc.
She steps on the path and the faces change to be Kellen, Anders, Mornie, etc.
She goes into a house. (Vivienne Gandes’ House)
She looks out the windows and sees the streets of Greyhawk and the body of a bloodied demon Minotaur. She hears someone talking.
She goes through the busted window and sees Airell holding the Warden of the Fore. The IT Crew are talking urgently with Airell about what to do.
The black fire has taken out most of the horizon.
She goes down the stairs and the gardens disappear. At the bottom she walks into a nine-sided room with gems in the walls.
She sees a statue of Zagig talking to Kellen. MK is passed out, very bloodied.
Two paths - Falling Star or Reyna. She follows Reyna.
Reyna is dead in front of Giants. She see’s Reyna’s crown, the other druid, and three unknown figures who are either dead or badly injured. She sees a path to go to Saltmarsh. She sets down the crown and walks to Saltmarsh and goes into the Sea Grove.
She hears people crying and cheering that the Sorceress of Saltmarsh is there. The void has destroyed everything except for Saltmarsh. Standing in the bay is Iuz. He’s waiting for her. She knows that she isn’t ready as all her spells are exhausted.
She wakes up sweating with chills up her spine.

We start crossing the Pearl Sea and it’s a very rough ride and we approach the continent of Hepmonaland. We see the archipelago of Breekas Teeth - lots and lots of reefs, hence the name. On the third of Goodmonth, we reach the island that Sohrel planned for our trip. In the lagoon, we can see a wide river flowing freely where we go to get fresh water. Sohrel tells us that we’re staying there for two weeks for repairs.

The water there is cool and crisp - such a delight. On Day 2 the foraging group saw giant golden lizards around the area. Dalem told the IT Crew that we most likely would need to help with protection - not surprising. Day 3 of the island and the foraging group (who have no more weapons) is led out of the forest by dragon-like people - it’s the Dragonborn! There are definite warriors, but others who appear to be the leaders.

The youngest of the Dragonborn came out to speak with me, MK, and Arienh. He thought that we were the Scarlet Brotherhood and stated that the island was protected by the Elder Tempest. Turns out that the Dragonborn immediately assumed we were Seluese because we spoke the language. I gently corrected him on that misunderstanding. I spoke to him without aggression, which I do not believe they were expecting, and stated we were not the SB. It appears that they are not fond of the SB, and that the Elder Tempest goes after anyone who takes from the Nalnaniris people.

Turns out the Nalnaniris people settled these islands long before the Suel settled their lands. The Dragonborn goes on to explain that Nalnaniris was an ancient dragon and that he left the Elder Tempest to protect these lands.

Dra’aruth, the speaker, goes back to the elders after I ask if it’s possible for us to stay and fix our boat. Cordiality appears to be the right tact so far. Airell joins us after waiting back a little while, the only person who can speak Draconic. I introduce the rest of the IT Crew, and Dra’aruth introduces Prenxos and Zorythas, the two elders.

Dra’aruth said that we can stay as long as we need. The Nalnaniris people say the water is free and that they are willing to trade for other items. We are to stay on the beach area. I ask what the Elder Tempest is, and he says that it is a living storm, a guardian who was left behind to protect the Nalnaniris people. Turns out the Nalnaniris people include the trees, land, and all living things on the islands. Shit. That means no wood.

MK asks for some of their shed scales, and after a little bit of clarification, Dra’aruth pulls off a scale and gives it to her. She gives them a lock of her hair. Kellen comes out with the talking plant and she offers them a metal cup. They are astounded by the gift of metal. We wrap up the conversation, they leave, and Kellen sends her Arcane eye after them to see where they live.

Little problem: we already cut down a couple of trees.

We find out that the name of the island is Nalnaniris’s Tears. Arienh makes a friend of one of the trees.

The following day, Arienh wants to talk to them about their religion. Dra’aruth returns with some of the Dragonborn and she bluntly asks them about their beliefs. Turns out the Dragonborn have “Listeners” instead of “priests.” They don’t have a religion per say, but more of a way of life of being part of the land. She got a lot of information on the people who inhabit the mainland. She also asks if we could bring wood from the mainland and then bring it back to the island without being disrespectful of their land. Olman people = hobgoblins. There are also centaurs, wyvern riders, and humans - Suel, Oridian, and Flanae.

She then asked them about the fact that we already cut down some trees. He looked very worried and said that there’s no knowing if the Elder Tempest will be upset. He quickly went back to the village to talk to the Elders about it. Arienh apologized profusely.

We’re a bit worried about that reaction, so we start getting the ship back up to specs so that we can sail. The next day Dra’aruth does not return as he said he would. We go crazy trying to get the Falling Star water-ready.

Dra’aruth finally comes and we all head out to talk to him. I’m the “speaker” at this point. They have a very different way of doing things, including the fact that it’s a bit of an insult for them to converse with non-Dragonborn. There is no appeasing the Elder Tempest, so we have to get out of there. We see it coming and quickly move to get out of the lagoon and out to open water. Dra’aruth tells us that the Elder Tempest has a short memory, so we should be able to return in a season. I yell “thank you” and then we rush to the ship.

MK - helping the ship (success)
Mornie - organizing the crews for efficiency (success)
Arienh - control water to shove the ship up to speed (success)
Kellen - uses animate objects to tighten ropes and make things more efficient (success)
Airell - helps with navigation (success)
Mornie - tries to persuade the Elder Tempest to back off as we didn’t mean to do anything (failure)
Kellen - uses major image to create a dragon who is breaking the trees deception (success)
MK - sings a sea shanty (failure)
Arienh - helping out on the ship (success)
Airell - battening down the sails (success)

The Elder Tempest hits us with one final blast before we reach safety. Arienh, MK, Kellen, and I get thrown off the ship. Airell somehow stays on the ship - must be his sheer stubbornness that kept him attached to the mast. Four crew members were blown overboard, two of those were unconscious. I was able to heal them by using the ring. We were beaten up pretty good.

We decide to sail up to the Tilva Strait to find a city on the other side where we can do repairs. Ridiculous that we had such a problem getting wood and we’re now worse than when we started.

When the ships came to challenge us, it turns out that the writ allowing us passage was very unusual for the captain to see. He was astounded by the verbiage, so much so that he had to check on it. His first mate was surprised by his behavior. It came out that it was conveying our ship as having VIP status. I picked up from the signals to the other ships how much status this writ gave us - pretty amazing. It took us longer to get through the strait because of the speed of the merchant ship - four days.

Waterday, Goodmonth 19th (the third day) - We hear the call to go to arms. The merchant ship is surrounded by boiling water and a long tail comes from underneath and hits the ship. A dragon comes down from the sun, blasting the ship with flames. The dragon then conjures the fire storm on the people in the ocean near the merchant ship.

Arienh and I yell at the dragon, “A challenge is issued to the archdruid Anthala Quen from the druid of Saltmarsh.” It starts circling around the ship and it says, “Who calls and challenges the Great Druid of Ancient Alyssa.” Arienh says, “I do.” The dragon dips down and circles around to the front of the ship. It shifts into the shape of a man as it lands on the ship. He clarifies “Great Druid of Ancient Alyssa or Archdruid of Sheldamar Valley?” Arienh says “The Archdruid of Sheldamar Valley.” “Ah, you are Reyna’s pupil, then?” “Yes.” “Then we have much to talk about.”


Inspiration: Mornie







Session 81 - 2-26-2023
We feast and get a bit richer!

Night before Richfest:

MK and Kellen are letting MK’s friends go. They check with Sohrel before, in case she wants to keep them. They display a lot of personal growth.
MK, Kellen and Arienh find them in a bar with other crew members telling a story of running out of Kro Terlep. They all look at MK when she walks in - she’s the one! “Whoa, big lady” they think. Others think she may not have knocked down the building.
MK and Kellen do “the talk”, bottle of whiskey is included. The guests want to think it over. Spoiler alert: they will stay.

MK, Kellen and Arienh go on a pub crawl and gather some rumors.
Scant has fallen to the Scarlet Brotherhood. Lots of tales about fire demon and lighthouse.
Naeri city is in chaos. There was a wave of assassinations taking out a lot of important people. Not sure who is behind that. The count is in the northern part of the county and unwilling to come south.
Mornie is scouting around the docks, getting the lay of the land, learning about other ships that are docked. She gets stopped a couple of times by the guards. She tells them to be wary of Airell the half elf. They tell her about the nice bars in the city - one in Craftman’s quarter, one in the burrows.
She goes to the craftman’s quarter and plays cards. She loses all 10gp.
Airell goes gambling and loses 100gp. There’s a community here and they are good at cards.

Arienh talks to MK and gives her a little red plant called Rux’Kalmorik. It talks and walks. It asks for dirt with water. MK is excited. RK is excited by the prospect of free water. MK and Kellen take it to a store to buy a nice pot. RK is really creeped out by so many things made of dead tree bodies.

Day 1 - sign MK up for the olympics Test of Trials for the next day. Apparently the rules are strict, but an old “friend” Barnaby from the Union of Smiles comes to the rescue and endorses her entry.
He really wants to know how IT crew got out of the tower. He thought they were dead long time ago. Crew of the FS comes to hangout and tell ALL the stories.
Kellen and Airell separately look for a place to bet, but only find official channels.
MK warms up for the competition. It’s 5 events in plate mail armor. Her competitors look skilled.

Rux is being adorable, and Kellen almost kills them only once.

Bets:
Kellen 25gp
Arienh 50gp
Airell 50gp on dwarf woman for weightlifting, 50gp on MK for the marathon and axe throwing, 150gp on MK overall.
Mornie 25gp

Competition:
Dash over uneven grass field - MK rolls 17, 33, 20. MK wins! 70 total
Marathon with water - 18 survival, 21 con check,  39 total MK is tied for 4th.
Barrel race aka weightlifting, need to stack them - 29 athletics to pick them up, 25 to stack them, MK wins! Dwarf woman comes second.
Axe throw - lots of misses, then MK hits the guy and he falls, she wins the second round, and then she’s again the last year’s champion Camille Boulderspear. MK gets a hit, but stays up. They keep missing each other. Finally MK falls. MK comes in second.
The climb - MK is tired and falls a lot at first, but does the course. Finishes in 4 place.
It goes for a while. MK finishes 3rd overall, very good for a first timer. We’re invited to the provincial district, and there’s a ceremony. MK gets two gold arm cuffs with symbol of Kord for winning two of the trials 10pg each, and a gold pin for 3rd place also 10gp, and a potion of Heroism.

The rest of Richfest:
Arienh stole a tree sapling and is trying to grow it.
Kellen sells the statue they stole for 80gp.
MK buys daggers for her guests and 3 more.
There's a bunch of fancy stuff at the auction, but all too expensive.

As we’re preparing to sail away:
Airell gets a visitor. It’s the owner of Greyfalls Antiques. He wants to talk in private. He hopes Airell is not planning to set up an organization. He says if Airell just pays for “it” and damages he won’t involve the authorities. Airell truthfully doesn’t know what happened.
He takes out a piece of parchment with a green hand where the pinky is the longest finger. Someone broke into his place, stole things and left that. Airell looks at it - the paint is new, smells like the city. He mentions the mask that was stolen. He has a book that can give him truthful answers.
Airell casts contact other plane.
Eda is really mad at him for making Iuz stronger. Really really mad..
After some chastising she does answer his questions.
Who stole it? 4 members of FS crew, including great-grandson.
Is one of the IT crew involved? Yes
Was it Kellen? No
Which member? Mornie
Where’s the dragon turtle going to be? Keep your eyes open while crossing the Tilva Strait.

Airell pays the shopkeep, tells Mornie they need to talk, and relays Eda’s displeasure.

Sail!
Sohrel charted the path for us. We’re going to go down through the pearl sea and to the islands down there that Brotherhood doesn’t go to. It’s 25 days of hard sailing. We can rest there and then go to Tilva Straits.
Kellen gives Sohrel Lantern of Revealing to make sure no one is scrying on the ship.

Airell talks to Mornie. She says she encouraged the guy to do something to get his attention. She also helped design the card. But she had nothing to do with the break in. The guys really look up to Airell, and Mornie thinks we should give them more purpose than just staying alive. Airell asks to tell him next time. She counters that it’s funnier this way.
Airell will steal the mask back, and leaves the card there. Airell finds half a dozen cards with paints in Ryder’s things. Eventually he finds out all the people involved. They call themselves The Hands of Airell. Eventually they have a meeting to discuss that Airell is probably onto them. It’s 4 people - Ryder, Medwin, Vospin and Olzerra. Olzerra was the runner and has the mask. Airell leaves the card and writes “do better next time”.
He will approach Ryder and tell him he talked to his great grandma. If you want to continue down that pathway, you need to do better, if you want to use my name you need to do better. Ryder says it was supposed to be a gift. Next lesson: who to steal from and who not to steal from. Airell makes a curriculum. Ryder asks about Eda a bit, Airell gives some answers.

4 weeks of downtime at Comfortable on the ship while we sail.
Airell tries to copy writs of passage, there’s an illusory script on it. He still makes copies and puts illusory script on it, but different one.

Arienh doesn’t know much about dragon turtle. It swims, probably doesn’t fly.

Inspiration: Airell, Arienh

Downtime:
Kellen fails to learn sleight of hand
MK fails to learn religion
Arienh brews potions
Mornie carves the rest of the IT crew into the side of the ship. They are a little rough, but from some points of view you can recognize them.
Mornie asks Airell to teach her deception. Airell is disappointed with her. Berates her on the choices. He agrees to teach her.
Airell made forgery of the writ of passage with illusory script.

Session 80 – 2-19-2023
We quickly decide to wind walk West to the peninsula and stop there to discuss the next step. We avoid Ekul as we don’t know what is happening there with all of the upheaval (Kro Terlep and Ekul are the only two cities open to foreigners). There is a pleasant beach just to the North of Ekul where we stop and reform. Airell identifies the stuff we found (Armor and tiara, one other thing?), Arienh keeps watch, Mornie talks to the Voice and finds out that it takes about a week for him to recharge the helm of teleportation. The Voice walks a little distance off to use a sending stone to check in. Mornie listens in.
The Voice tells us the Father of Obedience is safe. He was in Hesuel Ilshar (the capital in the middle of the peninsula, it means the Pure and Holy Home of the Seulese) but is now back in Kro Terlep. When Inzarne and Lo Zereth enacted their plans the FoO began their back up plans. Ekul has been completely lost to the Watchers and the Forgiveness has been unleashed there as well as. The Forgiveness is the carnage we just fled at the Tower. The FoO enacted the Forgiveness which was a back up plan in case of this circumstance happening.
Arienh notices that there is no wildlife here. As this is a tropical beach, the lack of fauna is disquieting. There are also a few distant ships leaving Ekul at full speed in a scatter pattern.
The Voice recommends we go full speed to Kro Terlep. We can’t get there without taking a lot of exhaustion. He is still going to head for Kro Terlep and suggests we go North. He wants to take the Portable Hole with all the books and promises to return it to us. Kellen moves our stuff into the Bag of Holding.
Mornie, who is watching the Voice go through the books, sees a map of the peninsula fall open and there is a weird silhouette around the island with the tower.
We fly off. Between the elevation climb and the wind it is rough going, but we make our way North and a little West. We find a place to rest, Kellen takes the armor and tiara Airell found, Kellen rips the rest of the patches off of the robe and we put the stuff in the BoH.
Mornie does the sending stone to Sorel and tells her to meet us at the cove we sheltered in for the hurricane.
Airell makes a tiny hut.
As Arienh goes to sleep she feels a chill set in on her despite the warmth of the hut. Her sleep is restless at first. She wakes up lying on the ground shivering.
See vision at the end of the notes.
Day two of flying, the wildlife is back, we make it to the cove and bed down. Arienh says she had another vision but it was similar to the ones before, maybe getting a little worse.
Arienh finds a Roanwood tree to add to the arboretum.
We get back to the falling star and catch up Soral. She wants to go back to Gryrax (two weeks sail), stay for Richfest, and then take the western route back to the Tilva Straight. We agree.
Arienh scrys on the Voice. The scry fails, he is warded or in a no scry zone. The sailors are playing a new game, swinging from the spars on ropes, patting wood-rienh on the head and generally being super distracting. Kellen of course wants to try.
Kellen attempts the rope game, is doing awesome, and ghostly Mornie sticks her head up through wood-rienh to try to scare Kellen, but Mornie is laughing too hard to be intimidating. MK goes next, almost loses it in the middle, but has a gloriously perfect finish. Mornie grabs the rope and twins the landing in perfect sync. Mornie gets the crew cheering for Arienh and Airell to do it as well. Arienh does it in monkey form. Airell spider climbs up the mast, casts mirror image and invoke duplicity and 5 Airells go swinging around and all tap wood-rienh and dive into the water gracefully.
Long rest and level up!
2 weeks on ship
          	Airell – teaching
          	Arienh  – 2 regular healing potions
          	Kellen – Does not teach herself slight of hand. Drops a lot of coins.
          	MK – didn’t study well
          	Mornie – practiced deception
A few days into the second week we hear shouts of alarm and then someone knocks on the door. Kellen throws her eye and sees the Voice and Harid are on the deck. Harid is masked, maimed, and no longer slimy. We go out and The Voice gives Kellen back her hole. He says there are some things in it for us and we say we should go into our cabin so we don’t disturb the crew. Harid’s mask covers his eyes, but he moves like someone who sees perfectly normally.
The Voice says the gift is a thank you and an official apology from the Father of Obedience for responding to the Grimoire in a very oridean way.
·       Two scrolls – writs of passage, brotherhood ships will escort us and take the writ. So two trips. And we should avoid Ekul for a few seasons. The forgiveness took quite a toll and the city is not open to foreigners.
·       Our atlas.
·       5 potions of supreme healing.
·       Writ that says we can visit brotherhood ports as long as it is in good faith.
·       Title to the Falling Star and contents.
These things are to assist us in destroying the Grimoire. Mornie thanks them for returning our Atlas and Harid says he didn’t fully trust us at first and apologizes for taking it. When Mornie asks about how he is he responds that the price for devotion is worth it. Arienh detects just a hint of bitterness in his very formal response.
Airell tries to steal Harid’s ring, it falls to the ground and Airell gives it back. They leave.
We sail to the Dwarven city of Gryrax. Arienh scrys on the dragon turtle (just sees water), anthala quen (fail), Saltmarsh (coffee has come to saltmarsh), Aeneros Dawnsinger (he’s on a ship-town-houseboat-thing on Nyr Div lake, talking with a human man, one of the Reni who still follow the Old Faith. Aeneros is trying to get the guy to let him do a ceremony, but the guy is not giving him the respect you would expect for a druid of the old faith).
Airell and Mornie look for magic shops, but as magic is illegal here it is difficult. Mornie buys 40 bullets for 5 gp and a new wheellock pistol for 475 gp. Kellen sells the cloak of useful items for two diamonds worth 50 gp each. Airell trades the tiara from the saughin and the bracers of archery for the broom of flying and a scroll of heal. He also sold the quiver from the medusa.
Charcuterie shop: Kellen buys a regular healing potion for 20 gp, potion of haste for 200 gp, potion of growth for 40 gp, 7 days of rations free (each you can reroll 1 hit die)
Arienh finds another tree in their version of the sea grove.
Kellen tries to sell the statue (wife of the crazy wizard): Next session.
Arienh’s vision:
Your eyes open to a familiar moonless night sky.  Cold winds cut into you from all directions, and the warmth bleeds from you.
You stand in the Sea Grove, beneath the Great Oak.  Around you is the familiar smell of the trees and underbrush mixing with the sea air.  In the distance, Ferrin’s memorial still stands.
From your vantage point you look over the buildings of Saltmarsh to the shoreline.  The red skinned giant is not there.  But the waves slap against the rocky short fitfully, as though with growing frustration.  On Siren Point, a pillar of light pierces the sky, rising from the Standing Stones there.
Beyond that there is a light on the horizon.  At first you think it's dawn, but the light spreads horizontally like a spreading fire.  And it illuminates nothing.  You can only see it because the void is darker than the night sky.  The spreading fire is a raging inferno of oblivion.  It doesn’t burn everything it touches, it consumes it.
You don’t realize you were moving until you reach the intersection:
Left should be Solmor Manor, but it isn’t.  Instead, the path leads to the interior of a house, as though it was sliced in half and placed on the path.
To the right, the path should lead to your home and Sharkfin Bridge, but instead there is a forest glade in the middle of the road.
Ahead of you, there is no path, but you are directly facing Siren’s Point.  The pillar of light shines before you.
When you try to cut through the open ground for Siren’s Point, the winds pick up in intensity.  It physically claws at you, the gusts take form, apparating faces at the edge of your vision.  When you turn to see them, they vanish with a mocking laugh.  But before they do you recognize some of them:  Skerrin, Mr. Dory, and Anders Solmar.  But you also see your allies:  Kellen, Mornie, MK, and even Airell.
So fierce are the winds that they hurl you back, blocking your path forward.  Giving up, you turn right, towards the grove in the middle of the road.
The woods close in around you as you step into the forest glade.  A single tree atop a small rise dominates the center.  Water spills from its roots, cascading down from several sides in small rivers.  The ground between the streaming water is covered with grass and lichen of a green so vibrant that it leaves afterimages when you look away.
Overhead you hear the beating of leathery wings, a whiff of acrid poison in the air.  Overhead, the green dragon screeches as it is swarmed by a throng of pixies.  They bind a web of magic around the dragon, and its form is forcibly shifted and reshaped.  Transformed into a upturned turtle, the pixies carry it to a hollow in the center of the tree.
As they do, MK and Xendros rest from the battle, leaning on each other.  Xendros’s thuggish guardian glares at you, oblivious to its wounds.
Beyond the scene, you see two paths cut through the forest:
On the left, the path leads to a spiral stairway of stone that goes deep beneath the earth.
On the right, the path and forest abruptly end as though the ground was sheared off, leaving only an expanse of featureless open ocean.  Standing on the precipice is Reyna Yargrove, gesturing for you to head this way.
Directly ahead of where the paths lead off, the forest descends towards a shore.  Fitful waves slap against the shore.  On Siren Point, a pillar of light shines into the sky.  Beyond it, the fire has consumed the entire horizon.  You can make out a figure, tiny due to perspective, but you see the sword of burning oblivion it wields.
Choosing the right path, you step off solid ground and stand atop the waves of a churning ocean under harsh daylight.  Underneath you the waves undulate angrily from a dissipating whirlpool. Next to you, the broken form of a dragon turtle bobs in the angry water.  The beast’s shell is cracked and its head caved in.
Beside it kneels a form obscured by the deep shadow the beats casts.  He rests a hooked broken staff before you in submission, but you can feel his seething rage in his posture.  When he looks up his face is obscured by his hood, but his eyes are coldly calculating the time of his revenge.
When you look back up, you see that shore has appeared behind the broken dragon turtle.  Two paths lead away:
To the left the road terminates suddenly on the deck of Falling Star, which bucks under turbulent waves.
To the right, the road winds into a mountain path.  The path switches back almost immediately and is obscured.  Ahead, where the path winds up the mountain, you see the tiny form of Reyna Yargrove.  She seems to have paused, as if waiting for you.
Directly ahead of where the two paths split off, the land plunges back down to the Saltmarsh shore.  The light beaming from the standing stone on Siren’s Point is blinding at first.  But you realize that is only because the fiery oblivion has consumed everything behind it.  The figure of Iuz is visible now, the corona of nine colors contrasting with its sword of nothingness.
You choose the winding path that twists and turns as it climbs into the mountains.  Finally, you come around a corner to a scene of slaughter.
Armored forms are sprawled across an impossibly tiny valley.  Your perspective shifts and you realize that the valley isn’t small.  Rather, the dusky skinned forms are massive.  Each one stands almost twenty feet tall.  The largest of them, almost double the size of the others, is face down nearest you.  His left hand is wreathed with a smoldering flame that gutters but does not die.
Before you is the body of Reyna Yargove.  Her body is not crushed or cleaved as you would expect from the giant weapons.  Instead it is torn and pierced in multiple places as though mauled by wild animals.
Behind her, Aeneiros Dawnsinger prostrates himself on the ground before you.  Three other forms are near him, their identities hidden in the shadow of the fallen giant.  Two are unmoving, while a third holds a ragged wound in its chest as it kneels besides Aeneiros.
You realize you hold Reyna’s broken crown in your hands.  Her blood drips down one antler onto the ground.
When you look back up, you see the valley open up onto the shores of Saltmarsh.  You hear cheering as you approach.  They have gathered at the Sea Grove, crying in relief that you are here to save them.
Darkness has fallen completely by the time you reach the Sea Gorve, except for the pillar of light streaming from the standing stone on Siren Point.  Standing in the waters before you is Iuz, red skinned and burning with nine colors.  His sword can barely be seen in the nothingness that has consumed the world.
Your shoulders slump, knowing that it is too late.  That is your last thought as your eyes fly open.
Inspiration: Mornie
Session 79 - 2/5/2023
Drawmij, I must say, being in this area of the Brotherhood is not my preference. Really wish that this Grimroire had never been created.

So, on to my report:

It’s still the same day. Gah.

We teleported to the Temple of the Eye. We end up in a large room with floors of charcoal gray marble. The walls are smooth and the whole room is lit like it’s daylight. There are bodies all around us - hobgoblins, Suloise soldiers. They’re all torn apart. This was minutes ago. I immediately have flashbacks to what the dog-headed soul showed me….they are calmed by the wizards, but the crazy is always there as they are spawns of a demon.

Arienh casts “locate object” to find one of the Grimoires. It’s down and southeast. The Voice of Obedience (VOB) tells us where the stairs are and MK goes up to the wall and tries to smash it. No effect. (MK really tries to hit everything. I wonder about her thought processes some days.)

I scout a bit ahead and go Northwest to locate stairs and locate a door. At my request, Kellen opens the door with mage hand and I see two of the dog-headed people. I immediately close the door, stating that they were the ones who did the slaughter. The dog-headed ones were standing motionless, but woke up when I closed the door. MK holds the door closed.

Everyone gets into place and MK lets the door go. She tries to grapple the one that comes through, but misses. I stab it with the Memory of Ruin. Kellen blasts it with Eldritch blast and it dies.The second one comes through and Airell shoots and Arienh flame it. MK lops off its head.

Airell and I hear hushed words on the other side of the door down the hallway, like someone is hiding. We think they are talking in Ancient Selouise, but we’re not sure. Arienh listens to the door near her and hears running footsteps with someone calling, “No, no no!” She says, “Incoming!” She then hears a magic mouth state “You do not belong here. You do not have permission to be here.” It keeps repeating and she hears someone say, “Shit!”

A person staggers through the door with mortal wounds. It crumbles and Kellen runs over to it to search the body. MK kicks down the door and sees five hobgoblins standing ready to fire. They panic and fire at MK, to no effect. MK says, “Hey! Stop. We’re here to help you! We just killed the two dog people.” The leader says, “Who are you?” “I’m MK, we’re here with the Voice of Obedience.” The VOB says, “Stand fast. Weapons down. What happened here?” “The bosok’shar went crazy. The master slowed them and told us to hold fast here. He hasn’t come back.”

VO says, “Stay here. We will go forward.” Turns to MK, “Shall we?”

Kellen investigates the sorcerer and only finds a dagger. The arm is totally mangled and lots of internal bleeding. Kellen stabs it in the spiral eye. (Kellen is getting better at this.)

We go down the hall. No sounds or traps. Open up the door to more carnage. MK asks VOB what this room was. “An assembly hall.”

I head down the hall and see a strange rune on the ground. I tell Kellen to come forward and then there’s a flash. I cover my eyes in time, but MK doesn’t. It’s a hypnotic pattern. This was an expensive spell to set, but it means that no one came down this way.

We head down the stairway and get to the next landing. Arienh’s spell is still active and we’re going the right way.

There’s a definite battle ahead, but not sure where it is. Airell shows some kindness to a slave and stabilizes him before he goes unconscious.

Following Arienh’s guidance, another room is opened and there’s another scene of carnage. There are a bunch of books in the room, and the theme of the books seems to be religious in nature. Kellen tries to sense the Grimoire. Arienh casts the spell again and senses the book due east. We open the door and see a bunch of crates - a storage room! There’s a bunch of spell components stored there.

We go down another hallway and pinpoint where the book is. The door is arcane locked. Airell casts Knock and I hear the bosok'shar down the hall snuffling right before the loud boom happens.Two of them snarl while running around the corner. Airell sees Lo Zareth casting a spell and Airell casts Silence. We think he got a message off before Airell’s spell settled.

MK kills Lo Zareth in silence. Everyone else starts attacking the bosok'shar. We end them. I get another bosok'shar soul.

I then hear people running away from the battle. Arienh fires the copy and destroys it, then burns another one. Airell loots Lo Zareth’s body. He had a cloak of displacement as well as a golden holy symbol. The tiara has some sort of abjuration magic. The VOB is looking through the books and says that we should join him in the room.

We hear another boom in the distance.

VOB asks Kellen for the portable hole so that he can take all of the books that are in this room.  The books appear to be arcane study and the others are the log of their activities. She agrees to let him after we get out of there. He says that he will return the hole with more items as a thank you.

Running back to the top of the tower, we are surprised and run into a group of hobgoblins and mages. MK starts slashing a bunch of them down. We recognize Inzarne!! Bitch. She blinks away again.

Arienh sees Inzarne blink back and she summons all of her rage into a fire attack, gets through Inzarne’s defenses, and melts her face. We watch as her body crumbles. Woo hoo! The rest is easy as we mop up the remaining bad guys.

We start running as we hear the bosok'shar. Kellen and Arienh throw magic at them, which eventually stops the pursuit. We keep going up the stairs heading to the upper levels. Dashing up, we reach the top of the tower and see the full circle wall that surrounds the tower. There are scenes of carnage all over the place. There are three wyverns circling around the tower, but their focus is not on us.

Arienh casts Wind Walk. We turn into mist and start heading out to sea to find the Falling Star. We do have the ability to use the sending stone once we get to a safe place.

What a mess.
Session 78 - 1/23/2023
We are in Kro Terlep early in the morning
Standing midst the people looking from the top
Twenty guards are staring in their shiny helmets
Voice of Obedience in the purple robe.

It’s a very formal gathering in a fancy building with a lot of decorated guards.
They brought the 2 members of the FS crew here too.
Next to the Father is Hadun'Vez, and Inzarne Nulseirol aka the bitch who killed Ariehn’s parents.
Harid is also here and missing limbs.

MK’s check for FO:
Armor class < 21
Total level < 14
Inzarne:
Total level > 14
AC < 21

Father wants to know about our deal with Harid, and things about the Grimoire. We mostly tell him the truth.

Inzarne speaks: IT confirmed Harid’s treachery. He was captured with the evidence planning the attack for the Tower of the Eye. She gestures to a monk next to Harid that’s holding a folded piece of paper. Harid blurted out: The maps were not being drained for IT, they were for our own investigators. (It’s very rude for him to speak out of turn).
Inzarne continues: The only reason there were problems it’s because Kellen tried to decipher its secrets. Seloise mastered the art of harvesting the power.
Arienh noticed that those 2 have twisted spirals in their eye.
Mornie raises her hand up and speaks up and says that we know of the power, but we wouldn’t be able to harness it.
FO: says they failed because of IT interfered. And calls Arienh a tool.
Arienh raises her hand up: She says that they had nothing to do with the failure 17 years ago.
FO asks to see the Grimoire. Arienh gets it out and everyone reacts immediately. People start to shake and get dizzy-like. Arienh notes that it’s a very strong reaction.

A monk takes the Grimoire and hands it to FO. He starts looking through it. His lips start moving, the monks start to sway and Kellen feels the pull.
Kellen and Mornie try to stop Father from reading, but the guards drag them away.
FO shakes his head, shuts the book and chucks it aside. He looks at Inzarne and says “this is not a tome, this is a conduit to slavery”. FO has crazy eyes like he had a near death experience. He points at Inzarne and says she would submit to questioning. He turns to talk to IT, as Inzarne casts a spell.
As she’s casting matrix shit happens. She splits into multiple copies of herself, a figure of pure fire emerges next to MK. Inzarne is casting a green bolt to FO.

Fight!
Mornie screams. Kellen summons a big hand and grabs the book. MK hits the flaming thing. Arienh spawns 8 wolves.
Haaged’Daz teleports himself and FO away.
Inzarne attacks Kellen and blinks.
MK and Arienh is on fire. Arienh jumps in the pool to cool off.
Monks attack us.
Guards try to grapple Kellen. She wriggles out.
MK is at 5 HP and runs off to save herself.
There are two Airells.
Warlocks are fighting against the guards.
Lo’zereth is trying to cast things, but gets countered by Airell’s sword.
Kellen opens the Portable Hole, falls in and puts the Hand above to Interpose.
The Voice attacks Lo’zereth.
The pikemen tear apart the fire elemental.
The bitch comes back and summons another fire elemental.
Airell gets on fire. Airell hits the bitch.
Inzarne creates a doorway with mist on the other side and it collapses around her.
Lozereth teleports away.

No one to attack, Arienh and Mornie call hold. Voice of Obedience stops the fight.
Kellen jumps out of the hole, leaving Grimoire inside.
VO says we will need to wait here until he figures out what happened, and only after that he will return us back to the ship.
Harid says that the watchers still have copies and they won’t be gone for long. Harid tries to set us up to go hunt Inzarne and Lozereth.
VO says he can take us there, but we need a way out.
MK drinks a bunch of healing potions and still doesn't look great.
Kellen makes the speech. Someone brings more healing potions for MK.
Harid explains - library level, the tower has the central staircase that leads everywhere. Library should be down from where we will arrive.
Kellen hides Grimoire inside a hole with a roll of 10.
VO teleports us all to the tower. Scene.
Inspiration - Kellen.


Session 77 - 1-15-2023
THE night was thick and hazy
When the 'Piccadilly Daisy'
Carried down the crew and captain in the sea;
And I think the water drowned 'em;
For they never, never found 'em,
And I know they didn't come ashore with me.

Oh, wait, wrong poem…

The night had spread quite far
When the noble Falling Star
Fought the Dogheads and the Monks over a book.
And we wondered, “Should we toss it?”
(Wish we hadn’t come across it.)
If only we had caught a nice Chinook.

As the dog creatures stab Tiren, a ship opens fire on the FS. It has crossed our T and does a lot of damage.
Shadow monks come dashing into the ships cabin where all the IT crew are hanging out (except Airell of course, who is up in the rigging doing repairs). MK rage kills one of the Dog things, the FS banks hard to port, and Airell stealth shoots the fireballing sorcerer.
The sorcerer fails to disintegrate anyone, Soral shoots the sorcerer, a monk attacks Arienh and gets the BoH away from her. The BoH gets dumped out in the room and there is a giant game of keep-away over the Grimoire. Kellen’s mage hand finds it first, a monk grabs it and tries to fling it out the door, it bounces off MK’s legs and back into the room, MK tries and fails to grab it.
Meanwhile, Mornie shoots a bunch of the dog things on the deck and Airell skewers the sorcerer through the neck. The FS continues to turn and flee. We have no idea where the other ship is, but we are pretty sure they don’t know where we are either.
Arienh, who is also there, dives for the Grimoire, grabs it, Misty Steps off the side of the ship and goes Giant Octopus, thus melding the Grimoire with her form.
Kellen thundersteps away from the monks, causing much ear pain. The monks run after Arienh and start an underwater fight. Kellen jumps after them going Giant Rainbow Shark. Only it’s dark so it’s Giant Black and White Shark. But it’s the flavor that counts.
Mornie is still ghosting around the ship stabbing things and Airell is raining arrows from above. Soral, Vohen, and the other guy are doing their best to help with the fight with varying levels of success.
MK has had enough of this shit and goes demon. She (he? It?) starts with twin disintegrate. She is, like, so over it. The “demon” (aka shard of Iuz) is delighted to be free at last and reigning down devastation.
The FS sails on and the underwater crew are left behind. Octorienh loses the octopus, re-ups the octopus, and swims away in a cloud of ink. Sharkellen keeps harrying the monks as they search blindly for Octorienh in the water.

M-Iuz-K (my-OOZE-kay) lights up the ship with twin immolate. Bye dog things. M-Iuz-K revels in the destruction. MOAR POWAR!!
We are out of immediate danger at last. Mornie takes a quick count and says, “Where is Arienh? And Kellen?” The ship slows and Octorienh catches up a few minutes later. She stays in octo form just in case there are more monks about and starts reloading the BoH, keeping an eye on M-Iuz-K.
Airell loots the sorcerer (nothing), detects magic and eventually finds another scrying orb on the top of the mast. He messages Mornie to let her know.
Anselm finds Tiren dead and yells for help. Mornie rushes in and instinctually revivifies him with the ring. He starts yelling about borders.
Mornie: “We killed them.”
Tiren: “Where’s Kellen?”
Mornie: *interesting…* “She’s coming.”
Tiren: “I’ve seen those Dog things before.”
Mornie: “Chill kid, just rest for now.”
Actually, she is much more encouraging than that. She then goes to the helm to check in with Sorel. Sharkellen catches up at last.
Meanwhile, Arienh finds out about Tiren. She confronts Mornie, and is like, “Why the heck did you use that spell and resources on a loser like that? A bunch of people I’ve known my whole life have just died and we didn’t save them! And I thought we were saving those spells for us.” Mornie points out that for a number of them the time window for saving them had passed by the time we found out. Arienh is not ready to hear this. And pretty much ignores the comment. Mornie admits it was an instinctual reaction and she messed up. Arienh says, “Yeah,” and walks away to cool off a little.
Meanwhile M-Iuz-K collapses into normal MK at 1 HP and sleeps.
Other stuff:
-          Kellen and Tiren are buddies.
-          Dog things are called Bosok’Shar which means Pure Underling of the Scarlett Brotherhood.
The next morning we are awakened by a cry: “Borders!” Seriously??
Someone shouts in Ancient Suloise, “Conflict! Truce!”
It’s a fancy dude in a mask with three eyes. Mornie, Kellen, and Arienh dash out of the cabin. MK and Airell start donning their armor and listen from the cabin. Arienh translates for Kellen and Airell (and the crew). Mask man, aka the Voice of the Father of Obedience, wants to offer a truce on behalf of the Father of Obedience. The deal is:
We will accompany VotFoO to Kro Terlep to see the Father of Obedience to present to him the Grimoire for him to examine. He has questions about claims made against the Watchers. He will then make inquires of us. Regardless of the outcome of that conversation, we get our abandoned crew back, the FS is not harassed, and we will be returned to the FS unharmed. We don’t get to pick the location. No magic allowed.
He also points out that the Brotherhood has never broken faith with us. We are the ones who attacked someone during negotiations. He seems straightforward. Honesty is a big deal to the Brotherhood, one of their prime virtues. It’s what makes them “better than the sub-human/people”.
We also want our atlas back. (He doesn’t know anything about that? Wasn’t part of Harid’s interrogation? Melissa isn’t sure.)
VotFoO has HP>44, AC < 21(Is that MK’s AC?)
There is a scry ball next to VotFoO and it follows us into the cabin as we confer. Kellen dispels it. Mornie and Kellen put on their armor as we discuss. We return to the deck to acquiesce to his request. VotFoO asks to see the Grimoire as proof we still have it. Arienh pulls it out and he says, “Hmm.” She realizes he has never seen it before.
We all pop to the top of the plateau in Kro Terlep. We see a very damaged Harid, Loh-zerhith (who we abruptly ended the negotiations with previously), and the woman from Arienh’s vision. And most importantly, we see the Father of Obedience with his circlet crown and and creepy owl on his shoulder.
Kellen asks to do a ‘morning prayer’ but is denied.
Also, before we left we told Soral to fix the boat and head SW.

Session 76 - 1-8-2023

Report to Drawmij:

We got out to sea with most of our crew intact, I think, but when I help Arienh with setting bones and whatever else she needs me to do, we find out that we are down people, including Bastion (leader of the deck crew.) This is not good. We do stabilize the worst cases. Dalem comes up to me and says that we are down 14 crew out of 40. I realize by looking at Arienh and many of them are ones that she knew from a young age. This is not good by any means.

Mind you, MK, Kellen, and Airell are still not on the ship while we are doing the triaging. They join us after a bit. Turns out Airell’s cape makes him look like a sea monster (I say a seal, but what do I know?) and the crew at first think they’re being attacked until they realize who it is. To my delight, I hear the crew cheering him on. This is a first. They start calling him the “Border one-half” in relation to “The Borders Three.”

About a half hour later, we hear one of the spotters yell that they see a strange wyvern coming towards the ship. Sohral picks up the glass, shakes her head, mutters a bit, and says, “That must be Kellen.” Kellen and MK almost make it to the ship, but Kellen’s suit stops working 5 minutes out. The crew then cheers as they pull them on the ship via a rope.

The ship gets under sail again and the IT crew joins Sohral in her cabin. There is a need for a plan as the wyverns are still following us. Sohral, stubborn woman that she is, tells us that she needs us ready for attacks and that she and the crew are going to assess the damage of the ship and we need to rest. We agree.

While in the cabin, Arienh asked Kellen why she decided to attack the wizard. Kellen said that she asked me and that I said yes we should (which I did…but I should have realized she would act immediately. Bad call on my part.) Kellen thought it would be better to grab the scroll right off the wizard instead of grabbing a scroll in Harid’s plan. When Kellen turns to me and says that I agreed to the plan, I said, “Yes, I did, but I didn’t intend for you to act upon it immediately.” Kellen looks confused and says, “Well, do you mean that we should have walked away, made a plan, and then come back and kill him? [she pauses] Oh wait, that is a better way.” We talk some more and realize that we really should come up with our own version of thieves cant.

Airell immediately goes to sleep and Kellen wants to check to see if he took anything. Kellen forgot to take off her gloves and Airell immediately wakes up. Airell has his dagger brandished and asks what she is doing. Kellen says that she saw that he was bleeding and was worried. “There?” I call from the other side of the room, “He isn’t female. He doesn’t bleed like that. He also doesn’t carry things there.” Kellen replies, “But that’s why I was worried!” Ariell, “We’ve got to work on your lying.”

The ship is repaired a good bit, but it cannot handle another fight like that. Arienh turns into a bug and checks on the crew. The crew is telling lots of stories about what happened - Arienh controlling the water and me taking on the whole group of wyverns; MK and Kellen took on a tower; Airell took on a ship…they think. Fascinating that they are talking about us like heroes of legend. This doesn’t sit well with me. I’m sure that the others may not mind about the hero worship, but I know that it will mean they have higher expectations for us that when we screw up, it will ruin morale. I spend a lot of time thinking about how to help the crew not lose their opinion of us.

Kellen, doing her Kellen-thing, goes to check on MK’s friends. She thanks them for what they did in the battle. Amazingly enough, they were more cordial towards her. She promises them that they will get “battle pay” and also be put on the regular rotation. Maybe there is some promise of loyalty there, but I’m not holding my breath (Yes, I can be ironic from time to time.)

While resting that evening, I have a memory of flying. It’s heavily humid and I see ahead of me a big bank of clouds. Somehow I have a lot of draconic memories that stretch for millennia. Oh right…I have the wyvern soul. I experience the months leading up to the battle we just had and see the aerie where the creature and its rider are from, the clothing of the people there, and see how much of a tribute it is for four wyverns to be given to the Selouise cause. I see how hard it is for the wyverns to recognize the differences between the different races/ranks (which could be good info for us) and that the wyverns and their people live days inland by flight. I stop melding with the wyvern’s soul and then focus on other things, like how to make grenades…

The next morning, Arienh notices that Sohral has not rested at all. She tries to force Sohral to go to rest. Sohral just hands her a spyglass and points off to the distance and hands the helm off to one of her men. The IT crew joins her in her cabin to discuss plans and we agree that we still need to finish up our goal of destroying the Grimoire.

Arienh sends out her owl for intel, and she also casts augury to see whether or not the proposed plan is a good one - to go over and sabotage the ships enough to get around them. Arienh casts augury and, oh wow, the omens are not good for our plan to attack the ships. We decide to outrun the boats by going north, then cutting west and south.

I start working with Kellen to create sticky bombs and MK comes in forlorn asking for a hug. I’m getting so much better at these. I’m only putting this in the report so that you know that I’m doing what you ask. MK appeared to be very happy with this hug. (Guess I’m getting better at deception. This hug-thing is getting frustrating.)

Kellen talked to Dalen about getting better shifts for MK’s friends. He agrees.

We then rest again on the boat. I know that Arienh had a rough night that night as she woke up gasping so loud that it broke my trance. I follow her out and try to be present enough to see if she will talk, but she doesn’t. Instead she shifts into a sea hawk and flies up to the top mast when she sees I’m watching. I’m worried. *vision is recorded below the report to Drawmij.

Arienh doesn’t talk all the next day and I keep tabs. But I know that she knows that I’m watching.

Later that morning, Sohral says to everyone, “Well, they’re still following us. I don’t know what you had planned, but whatever you could do to help, I could use your help. I’m getting frustrated with this.”

Arienh uses the sending stone to talk to Klee to ask what is going on in the Yeomenry. I find out about this later. For some reason she decided to hide this from me.

Kellen mentions that she has a lantern that can see anything that’s invisible. (Right…these assholes have wizards that can scry.) Sohral mentions that there is another ship.

So, the plan is to walk with the lantern to see where the scrying orb is. The goal is to tack hard at night once the scrying orb has been dispelled.

Kellen creates a smoke bomb to help with preventing sight of the stars at night. (success)

I am assigned to Yarik to help with fixing the ship. I spend the day hammering and fixing the sides. (success)

Airell sews up a leather hood to throw over the scrying ball to prevent it from seeing. (failure)

Arienh scries on the other ship. She sees the captain and crew, plus a Selouise man with strange geometric tattoos on his body that glow faintly. She sees the dog-headed people there as well. Ah - that’s why we shouldn’t attack the ship. She notes that the person who is scrying on them is not on that big ship. (success)

MK goes down below to hold back the water that is coming into the ship. The crew there then have her take a tarp and put it in the worst spot so that it can be hammered into place to hold back the water. (success) - Yuriy rolled a 34!!!!

The crew finds the scrying ball. Kellen throws the smoke bomb, Sohral has the ship hold and we wait out until the ball pops out of existence. Then we change course quickly.

MK decides to cook food for the crew to help them with their morale. (failure) She over-salted the food. She even asks me later about my thoughts. I remind her that I don’t need food, but that she needs to lay off the salt. I’m confused as to why she forgets that I promised her to always tell her the truth when it comes to her performances and cooking. You cannot get better if people lie all the time.

That evening the lantern sees another scrying orb. Kellen used dispel magic on it and it popped out of existence. No other orb shows up. (success)

The next morning I offer to help Sohral with navigating a course. In the process, I discover that the Atlas has been stolen. Kellen brings up the suspicion that it is Harid. (success)

Arienh repairs parts of the ship. (success) Airell weaves repairs for the sails. (success)

Vohen collects the rest of the group to talk with Sohral. One of MK’s guests went to talk to Sohral. Rath told her that the Brotherhood infiltrated the thieves guild. When a bunch of ships came to Naeri, the thieves’ guild instead ran protection detail on them instead of robbing the foreigners. One of them saw that the ships were full of soldiers. The ships did sail off to Scant. This means that there are at least four ships in front of the Falling Star that are waiting for us if we go North.

Rath wants to talk to MK and she comes clean that originally the plan was to sell MK and the IT crew out to the Brotherhood. She says that they will do what the IT crew will want. All she wants is to get back to Naeri city. MK, “Sounds reasonable to me.” They shake on it.

Another orb appears that night and Kellen dis-spells it.

The next day Kellen gets some inspiration and decides to build a construct that looks like it has tentacles. It takes off and then we hear distant cannon shots shooting at it, which means that the boat had to turn halfway! Airell casts Magic Mouth on it to say in Ancient Selouise “Swim on. Hey, we’re halfway there.” (success)

Arienh helps with the weather to help with the crew in tacking the sails in the right way to catch the wind. (success) MK tries to help the ship with the rigging. (failure) During the day I go around raising the morale of the crew. Maybe this will help them not see us so much as these heroes of legends. We’re just adventurers. (success)

There is a conflict between Anselm and Donvil. I go in to mitigate as Anselm pulls a shiv on Donvil. I persuade them to deal with it without violence, and I confiscate three of his shivs. Dalem then tells Donvil that he has to go down with Anselm to work in the bilges as Donvil started the entire conflict. Kellen brought ice water to help with the situation.

Dalem talks to the IT Crew about the fact that the crew is on edge because they are walking and working with heroes of legend. They don’t want to let anyone down, so they’re working like crazy. Just what I surmised. This is going to be a problem.

Airell finds the scrying orb where it was up on the masts. He disspells it. (success)

Airell sees Tiran come up from the deck and you can see that he makes a decision and starts walking toward the IT Crew cabin. There is a ripple and sees the dog-headed people and Selouise people who lunges forward and stabs him right in the heart. Tiran responds quickly and tries to knock on the door. He is shanked again and then slumps to the ground. There is no sound. A fireball is thrown into the cabin and the Airell sees cannon fire from other ships. He tells Dalem through the earring, “Enemies on our deck and cannon fire coming. Get the crew!” Then he hears “Take cover! Cannon Fire!”

Arienh’s vision
Arienh is resting and she starts having a similar vision, but it’s definitely different. She sees the grove where the big tree is split by a huge sword. She’s under the impression that this is the result of some decision that she hasn’t made yet. There are three shapes of people she knows, but doesn’t recognize. One of them is Sohral. The other is Mornie. They followed Arienh to the ends of the earth for something, but it frustrates her that she doesn’t know what that something is. The third form is crawling on the ground going towards the bridge, and she sees that it is her. Her perspective switches to the form on the ground. She makes it to her house and she sees the broken body of Rayna. Rage and fear fill the face of Rayna, of Arienh. She lunges at Arienh, and Arienh side steps her. Rayna is mad at Arienh as Arienh caused whatever this chaos is. Rayna tries to claw at her again and Arienh avoids her. Arienh is holding a piece of Rayna’s crown. She then picks up all the other pieces and tells Rayna that she will fix it. Looking at the bridge, she sees a shadow slink away, so she decides to follow it. She sees that it is _______, the druid of Saltmarsh. He is awe-struck by her, as she is a dangerous force. He appears to be happy with the destruction that has happened at Saltmarsh and that Arienh is also suffering, but this is quickly hidden by a face of subservience. He flinches away from her when she asks him where he is going.  He says, “I am staying out of the path of the Great Druid.” “Why?” “Because you told me to. You said to kneel, and I knelt, and this is what you wrought.” Arienh looks out again and she sees something moving at the shoreline near the council chambers. She looks down at her hands and sees that the crown is fixed. She approaches the gallows and she sees the three bodies hanging there are Kellen, Airell, and Vohen. The entire crew of the Falling Star was in view of Vohen where they were tortured to death. Standing in the bay is the humongous shape of Iuz. Absent are the four flaming shapes generally accompanying him. He is blazing with fire of nine colors. Beside him there is a second light; a white blaze of light is coming from the Oridian stones at Siren’s Point. Iuz shatters the stone and darkness comes back in. The flaming sword cuts through the darkness towards Arienh.


Inspiration: Kellen


Session 75 - 12-30-2022
Running away against the wind on FS. Wyverns chasing. Crazy action on the deck.
Sohrelcalls everybody to the cabin. She asks what did we do and in the future to give her a heads up when we have meetings.
We have 45 min until we get to shitstorm. They can chain the river. Arienh is thinking about Control Water. Plan is to Wave, and maybe Smile.
The tower has canons that outrange the FS. They are on top of the tower. Kellen suggests flying there with MK and dropping a bomb on them.
One more thing to worry about - ships waiting at the mouth of the river. We don’t know how many. Clairvoyance within a mile of the tower. Sorel wants to know what types of ships are waiting for us. She saw ships with ballistas before with ship-sized harpoons. They might also have ships with cannons and then we’re cheese.
Dalian appears at the door looking pale. 37 of the crew are present and accounted + guests. Sorrel hired 10 extra crew for this journey. We lost 3. 19 injured, 4 in really bad shape. Everyone else has minor wounds. Airell goes to administer Spare of the Dying to the badly wounded.

Clairvoyance:
Tower is 40ft square.
They are hauling 4 cannons in position to point to the river.
40 or so hobgoblins
The tower immediately down from the big one has a chain across the river.q x
12 wyverns flying in formation of 3
3 ships. one with cannons, all waiting for us
across the river a group of 10-12 centaurs grouped in 3, moving a bit, in protective formation around the tower on the other side.
Couple of shapes on the top of the tower on the other side of the chain.
Arienh casts walk on water on 30 people.

Kellen and MK fly off invisible to drop the “bomb”. MK shots it with the fire bolt, dealing 20 damage. MK appears in mid air (Kellen is still invisible). Not enough to damage the canons, but the hobgoblins fly off the walls. Barbecue!
MK holds action to dive bomb and burning hands. That cinges a few more hobgoblins, but they are still going. Kellen pops into view as her invisibility drops.
MK kills the crew of one of the cannons. Another squad of hobgoblins is running to the cannons. Plus a Seloise man with no armor. MK attacks him, he’s tough. Kellen casts Mental Prison with rainbow sharks on him and he jumps off and dies. Kellen grabs MK and starts to fly away. Hobgoblin warmage hits MK, but she’s tough.
As they fly away MK fires 3 shots right into his buttcheeks and he dies.
They keep killing off the squad.
Kellen disguises self to look like a wyvern and flies off into the sunset.

Airell split from the party and went to the ship with cannons. He climbs up into the port hole on the side. It’s dark. He casts Blink, and Shadow Blade and attacks. He takes a bunch of damage, and almost dies. He continues to hide and harass, and for a little fella he manages a lot of ruckus keeping 2 cannons from firing. His spiritual weapon flies around making damage.
Airell now wants to research Finesse spiritual weapons.

Falling Star sails in.
Wyverns throw alchemist fire at the sails, they catch on fire. Mornie shoots them very epic while swinging on the rails. Wyverns keep attacking Mornie and not doing much.
4 fires are blazing at one time, but the crew manages to put most of them out. Wyverns switch to their stinger tails, and that gets Mornie a bit, but what’s dead can never die.

Falling Star gets full sails up and rushes forward.
Arienh invokes Shape of Water, getting the ship over the chains and proceeds to whip it around, trying to topple enemy ships. She herself is hiding belowdecks because who needs to see the water? It’s all the same.

Cannons from the tower shoot the FS. Two ships try to grapple and fail every time.

Sohrel goes down at some point, Dalem stabilizes her. Heroneus came to her rescue with an epic lighting bolt from the sky. She proceeded to heal herself.

Wizard on the big ship is casting dispel magic on Arienh’s trench. Fails.
Mornie is not amused and kills him anyway.

FS is free! MK and Kellen are flying off into the distance. Airell is swimming.
At some point we will converge. Brotherhood ships stop trying to catch the FS.

Inspiration: Arienh
Session (74) way too early in the morning - 12-11-2022

Mid day, 9th of Wealsun. We are at the garden of Order, standing beneath the Cacao tree, meeting with the guy with the falcon (bodyguard with ghost step tattoos) and dude who was one of the two in charge of killing Arienh’s family (twice). Arienh recognizes him and doesn’t do a great job of hiding her fury. Mornie picks this up. He introduces himself as Ahfgklajdsjklhdasg;k which translates to subcitizen brother of the kingdom of purity and archmage of those who search the outer forever (aka watchers).

Arienh and MK visually translate in their heads so now Loh-zerhith knows they speak Ancient Celoise. Mornie is able to hide the fact that she too understood.

Loh asks who Airell is and Airell says his name is Friend. We are invited to sit and eat. We cautiously do.

As Loh eats he is fidgety and nervous beneath his facade. He keeps glancing over his shoulder at the bodyguard. He shifts to put his back to the bodyguard as if to minimize what the bodyguard can see.

He asks about the Grimoire and tells us that Harid is part of a rival faction and Skerrin and his cohorts went crazy trying to unlock it and they want to lock it back up and clean up their mess. (Mornie, Airell, and Kellen are pretty sure he is lying).

With anyone else they would have tried to take the Grimoire from us, but with our group they have a different proposal. We have a ship the brotherhood thinks is still theirs as it was taken by force. Loh has the authority to make the ship considered ours so no brotherhood would try to take it and we would have access to ports like regular people (aka not considered pirates).  The usual rules of ships is finders keepers so the brotherhood has some… interesting… ideas about ship ownership.

Loh mentioned the tower of the ?? And Kellen asks where it is. He says on the other side of the peninsula. Kellen is fan girling about the tower to get info. Loh apparently lives in the tower. Kellen tries to thieves cant “kill him” to us. She doesn’t hide it well. Airell, Mornie, and Arienh notice the bodyguard go into fighter stance subtly.

MK learns: Body guard - hp less, ac higher
Loh - hp lower, class level higher

Kellen asks if touring the tower can be part of our payment, but is denied. There is talk of money and Mornie asks for 100,000 gold. Instant agreement from Loh. He says he will make a deposit of 25,000 gold.

The bodyguard comes up to Loh and angrily says in Celoise, “you are giving away something that is not yours! Your group has lost three artifacts and now you want to give away the falling star??”

For a moment anger washes over Loh’s face and then he replies “ you are the eyes of the father of oblivion. Feel free to report what you see but until I hear his voice… gtfo.”

“Sorry about my guy, he needs to learn that trust is a 7 course meal.”

Those of us who speak Celoise know that the bodyguard made a huge faux pas socially. Mornie knows that there was a semi mythical part of the watchers of obedience who are minders which is basically what the bodyguard is. Harid mentioned that the Watchers of obedience lost 2 artifacts. We found 3 artifacts at Abby Isle.

Kellen tries to cast Banishment on the guard. As Kellen turns on her glove, a pair of throwing daggers are embedded in her chest. And the guard vanishes. Then Loh vanishes, Kellen tries to counter spell, but Loh also counter spells and vanishes.

Arienh says Dimension Door and looks around.  She sees people in the distance turning and looking at us. As The half elf servant comes over to see what happened and Kellen says “They had to go consult with someone? I don’t know exactly? Can you refill the coffee please?”

Airell and MK move to flank the spot where the bodyguard will reappear. A horn goes off and people start running. Mornie calls Sorrel and says “ Get the ship ready and get out. We will meet you there”.

We all hold actions for when the bodyguard reappears and then insta kill him. We all go invisible and start racing for the ship.

Airell and Mornie start sprinting for the gate that is between us and the ship.

Arienh knows that wyvrns have good perception, dark vision, but not blindsight or true sight.

Mornie stops in the market to gather crew, Airell sprints fort the gate, Arienh goes giant owl and picks up Kellen and MK and heads for the gate, flying low. Airell and Mornie see the centaurs form up around the barracks. The three of us in the air see soldiers forming up and loading crossbows.

There are about 40 crew inside the barracks. We need to get them out. Airell heads of the gate, Arienh drops MK and Kellen 100 feet from the  gate and drops wildshape.

Skill check time! (9 successes before 3 fails.)

Mornie uses the sword to yell loudly (“We Jas frowns on you, how dare you go against her chosen!) and scares the centaurs. (The crew does not know to run, one fail.)

Arienh casts reverse gravity on the centaurs and the crew makes a run for it. (One success.)

Kellen tells the goblins to run the other way. The Celoise leader pauses and it slows them down. Then they again head for the crew. (Second success).

MK hulk smashes a building and collapses the whole thing into the path of the hobgoblin infantry. (Third success.)

Kellen summons a stone giant who catches the gate so it doesn’t drop all the way. (Fourth success.)

Daelin catches a crossbow to the thigh and the crew slows down some of the crew.

MK uses her shield to protect the crew helping Daelin stagger on, keeping multiple crossbows off of them. (Fifth success.)

Mornie shoots at the wyvrns who are starting to attack. (Sixth success.)

Arienh times dropping the centaurs on top of the hobgoblins as they come through. They take a ton of damage. (Seventh success.)

Airell casts slow on 6 wyvrns (they fly in groups of 3) who are dive bombing the ship with flaming oil. (Eight successes.)

Airell again. He attacks the wyvrns. (Ninth success!!)

The crew makes it to the ship and gets underway as fast as they possibly can.

There are a couple of Brotherhood ships also underway. Two sets of three wyvrns are headed out far to the sides of us.

Vohen says, “I hope you have a plan for what comes next. We passed a castle on the way in.”

Inspiration: Kellen

Session 73 - 11/25/2022
Mornie’s report to Drawmij

We ended our day meeting with Harid in the bathhouse on Freeday, Planting 21st. His infliction is still quite…pervasive.

His suggested plan - Act as mercenaries trying to get rid of the Grimoire. Harid will then negotiate the sale and his plan is that his people will overhear what is going on so that we’re ready when the Office of Obedience sweeps in.

His thought is that the Office of Obedience (OOO) will come in, countermand everyone, and then try to get the Grimoire from us through negotiations.

Our job: to insist that we will only negotiate with the Father of Obedience (FOB). He believes that we can claim to be foreigners (which we are) and state that we do not know the regular protocols. (Which is absurd, in my mind, considering how much research we have done on this.) Harid was adamant that we only state this as our only demand. That way we can get what we want.

From there, we “negotiate” with the FOB by “attempting” to take him out. That way the Watchers (WOB - Watchers of the Brotherhood) will then come in and take us to their tower where we can take them out and get all the other versions of the Grimoire. We will not have a lot of time to defeat the wizards and steal the teleportation circle to get out of there.

He hopes that the WOB will be claiming that we work for them. That way it will play into their hands for us to take them out.

For the purposes of this report, I want it known that Harid told us to take him out if everything goes wrong.

Before leaving Harid, he agrees to join us on the ship when we are ready to get going. We have to wait a little longer for the chalice to get finished.

Side note: MK, in her bloodthirstiness, insisted that Harid get her the culprits who stole the chalice. Harid was reluctant, but said he would try. I’m positive that Harid has connections.

Airell and Kellen then head to the one magic shop with the Sage (aggravating old quack who “claims” he cannot hear very well. Very insulting.) Airell, I’m sure, did this to case the joint. He went under the pretense of finding out about magical items (Rope of Climbing and Goggles of Night.) Somehow the Sage thought that Airell and Kellen were getting married (snap decision on his part since they were both short. Another mark against this person.) Somehow Airell (yes, Airell) is able to go along with the farce and convinces the Sage to let him view the Sage’s notes on the magical items without having to pay - a wedding gift. Kellen tells us later that she was upset that the Sage didn’t offer her a wedding gift. The Sage tried to rectify this by offering her the book that she was admiring on the Flora and Fauna of the Tilvanot Peninsula for 6 gp (an absolute steal since most of the books were 13 gp or more.) That didn’t work. (I was surprised at how upset Kellen was over this entire thing. Usually she just brushes this sort of thing off. We must be rubbing off on her.)

That night, Arienh decides to read from the Grimoire. Everyone, but Airell, is there to support her (he’s obviously plotting something). Later, Arienh tells me that she was in shock that Kellen was clueless that the Grimoire wasn’t a spell book. While sitting there, I see that Arienh looks pretty self-assured about the reading of the book. She had a confident look on her face as she slammed it closed at the end stating, “NO.” She then seems quite rattled and has the look of someone who just finished a major combat. Arienh says that she feels unsettled, but no headache. The headache I got at the end was the worst experience I ever had. Glad she avoided that. Such a relief that she didn’t need to be healed like I was.

Afterwards, Airell suggests that we go back to the Sage’s place to get Kellen a wedding present. I, of course, go along with him and Kellen. Before leaving, Kellen dumps out the portable hole. (We really should have an inventory of the stuff in the portable hole. I have a small list, but that’s only the stuff I put in.) We go into our super stealth mode and notice that very few people are out at night, aside from the patrols. I’m in shock at the lack of discipline of the patrols - two obviously drank on ton while on duty. I made sure to give them a wide berth. After reaching the statues, Airell tells Kellen to pick a statue that will fit in the black hole. Kellen chooses a beautiful female bust. While pushing the bust into the portable hole, it starts talking and Airell casts Silence. We know it was the Sage’s voice. Once it hit the bottom, something cracked. Before Airell cast Silence, it was stating that somebody was already on their way. Crap. Time to go. We got out without any problems, of course. But, I knew that there would be repercussions of this steal. Why would the Sage put the alarm on that particular bust?

On the following day, we bring Sohral up to speed and she sends Vohen out to get more purchases for the “merchant voyage” to Kro Terlep. Vohen comes back with stories about the uproar of someone stealing from the Sage. Turns out the Sage is beloved (gag). The Count is putting out an amnesty of “If the statue reappears, nothing will happen.” The bounty on those who took the statue has increased to 75 gp. (I can see Airell smirking when he hears that the bounty keeps going up.)

On the next day, we have a surprising encounter. All of us have moved back onto the ship while waiting for the chalice to be finished. While we were doing our various things (I was studying with Airell, Arienh was finalizing her brewing abilities, and Kellen was teaching MK about religion), one of the sailors walked in stating that there were three people there for MK. MK looks surprised and walks outside to see the three newcomers. The big Selouise woman said that they were there to deliver a message from Harid to MK in private. MK and the big woman do not hit it off. The two thugs and the teenager head into the big room with everyone else.

MK reads the letter and giggles. Hmmm…not suspicious behavior at all. She tells the three thugs to step outside because MK has to “confer with her colleagues.” (Such a big vocabulary from MK. You would be quite proud of how she’s expanding her lexicon.) She shares with us that the letter is from Harid - the thugs were the ones who stole the chalice. It says that there is a thieve’s guild and that it took a lot to convince his associate to send the three there. We are to do what we want with them, just not bring down the authorities.

This is where things start going south. It’s not like we aren’t going into an unstable situation as it is, but this wrench has to be thrown in. Bear with me as I try to explain it without swearing.

Kellen suggests that we take the thugs on as the “special crew” that we can later sacrifice to the ritual. She believes that since the ritual states we need to have three people that we care about to sacrifice, and then bring back, that forming a friendship with these thugs would be the best solution. MK immediately says yes and Kellen crafts a letter that is from “Harid” stating that we are “saving” them by taking them on as crew. Kellen and MK want to pay them as well.

Airell, Arienh, and I were in so much shock at this turn of events that we stared in mute astonishment. Well, maybe not Airell. He enjoys chaos way too much.

Once the letter is finished, MK tells me to go and welcome them to the crew. By this point, I’ve had it. I stand up, open up the door, and tell the three that they need to go and talk to MK, and I go off to find Sohral. I hear Airell come out right behind me and say, “Talk to MK. I cannot believe that we are  doing this for Harid.”

Kellen shows them the letter that has the gist of, “They crossed some wrong people. The favor is to take them out of the city for some time. Treat them well and mix them with your crew. I’m calling in for a favor. - Harid”

Airell then implies that maybe the statue fiasco is part of this, and the female thug blurts out that they had no part of the statue…and oh my gods, they are being blamed for stealing from the Sage.

I miss a lot of the drama as I go to inform Sohral of the cluster… that has happened. Sohral, go figure, is upset over this. Sohral, bless her, sends the three to work in the bilges. They are disarmed, of course.

Kellen tries to make friends with the three. I spy on them, of course. This is not going to end well as they are not going to befriend us as we are now their “captors.” Kellen made friends with Tiren, the teenager with red hair. Turns out Kellen likes kids (her words, not mine). Kellen does a lot of talking regarding her travels. Anselme is very irritated by everything Kellen does.

Female thug - Rathrasi - Rath is her nickname. (Selouise)
Male thug.    - Anselme (1/8. Selouise)
Teenage thug - Tiren - (Fflan)

At the end of the two weeks, we are able to get the chalice. Arienh and MK pick it up. It was being kept safe in the temple.

We then inform Harid that the crew would be ready to leave by the 15th.

Star day the 15th

When Harid sees the thugs, he mutters, “When I said disappear…” Then shakes his head. It’s obvious he is legitimately surprised that they are alive.

Vohen tells us that we are trading lentils, pickled beef tongue, and minted fish.  Oh my.

Arienh, Kellen, and Airell realize that the day we leave is three years to the day that we all met.

A week into our voyage, Airell checks on the statue and realizes that it has been talking for three weeks straight. Turns out the mouth was at the tits of the statue. The Sage must have had a romantic relationship (or dream of a relationship) with this woman.

He sees that the statue broke at the neck. He disspells the magic mouth spell. MK lifts it out of the portable hole to mend it. Turns out Airell does it on purpose so that the three thugs see the statue. Now we really have a problem.

I find out that these thugs have figured out where we are going. It turns out that Rath has connections with the Brotherhood as the thieves guild has some contacts. She knows that the thieves guild is being run by the Brotherhood. Tiren states that the Brotherhood hates people like him.

Anselme makes it very clear that he is willing to die to kill Airell after the statue incident. Rath says that she will try and talk to Harid. Harid spends a lot of time down there because…water. Vohen later on does give Harid a bath bucket of water so that he doesn’t have to go down to the bilge. (Very nice of Vohen).

Kellen talks to Tiren about the fact that it wasn’t the statue incident that they are in trouble for, but the chalice. Tiren is clueless as to why that was the issue. After a long conversation, the shine is off the relationship with Tiren and Kellen. He really has no admiration for her anymore.

No friendship anymore with these three. We need to get rid of them.

We ship into Kro Terlep.

Kro Terlep - what a horrible place for foreigners. But, that’s the point, right?

The ship and crew are thoroughly searched. Our names and likeness are recorded. We are assigned a number and wear a collar with said number around our necks. Vohen is very antagonistic about this entire process. He’s doing this intentionally. We are not allowed to stay on the ship and get put in barracks while we are there (that we have to PAY for.)

Wyvern riders are constantly circling overhead.

Arienh makes friends with the large Cacau tree in the foreign quarter. :)

I figure that while we are there, I should be a little more obvious about who we are and I go to the gymnasium to train for about a week. I end up meeting Vecevel - the captain of the Watcher’s Bastion. He appears to be very tolerant of foreigners… while the rest of the bastion is outright hostile. I beat everyone I spar with, but I’m very careful not to overdo it. After I finish a sparring match near the end of the week, I am approached by a young Selouise man. The men there give him a wide berth and it’s obvious he is higher ranked. He introduces himself as Craieros Indlarrianon (an Elven name). Common is most likely his first language. He came to me on behalf of his master to be invited, along with the IT Crew, to meet him for lunch. We are to meet at the entrance where the Cacau tree is (Gardens of Order). Noon. I accept the invitation.

We meet Craieros at the garden entrance. Very sparse area. Underneath the tree a small table has been set up for lunch. The man who meets us is of mixed Selouise descent. Another figure steps out from behind the tree.

“Invicem Tolerando,  I’ve been looking forward to meeting you.”

End report.

Side info: Arienh recognizes the man from the table who was in her recent dream. The other man was the bodyguard from her dream. Airell recognizes the tattoos as Lendorian. The tattoo is magical.

Inspiration: Everyone!
