Session 132 7/5/2025
Co-location matrix is up and running, waking everyone up.
Arienh and Cosima are spooning somewhere on the streets. They wake up and head to the hospital.
Mornie and Broseb are in the hospital. Mornie hands the bishop a paper and they head out for the standing stones.
Airell messages Arienh with info about Greyhawk. Arienh gives Mornie a pep talk. Mornie is still not talking.
The party assembles. Kellen finishes the speech. Preparations are made. Wild fire spirit is out, tenser is up, ghost arms for Broseb, Airell has mage hand, MK holds a grapple. Kellen takes the talisman.
Eliander runs up to ask what’s going on, but doesn’t get an answer.

Godtrap. There’s bunch of decaying demons and weird mold.
Around the platform - the victors of that battle. Manbearpig, necrohulk standing over a broken body of Waldorf.
Towren is controlling the Godtrap and Forethought of Iuz that was torn out of Waldorf. He’s trying to swallow that salad shard.
Godtrap is being overloaded. There’s a shaft of pure daylight in the corner going all the way through gild of wizardry down to the dungeons.
Fight begins. MK grapples a fungi. Mornie attacks Towren and misses.
Towren says that if we kill him the Forethought will fly away and find a new host.
Towren tries to cast spell on Airell, Kellen counterspells, so he hits her and throws her down.
Arienh owlshapes and picks up Kellen to bring her up.
Mornie shoots the fungus. She misses, grabs another gun and kills it outright. The gun neighs? MK is grossed out a bit.
Kellen takes control of the Godtrap. She immediately traps Forethought.
MK wallops on Towren and knocks him out.
The jaundice thing casts web.
Airell hags down from a rope and casts Holy Aura.
Broseb punches the pigman.
Something stabs Towren. MK sees another Waldorf at the base of the pillar.
Pigman attacks Airell.
Waldorf throws another dagger at Towren and kills him completely. The shard comes out. It looks like a small child. It’s missing an eye and has a still bleeding wound across his face. He’s not flashy at all. His voice is in everyone’s mind.
Kellen casts Mind blank on herself.
MK goes to whale on the kid and smites him with thunder, pushes him prone into the web. 125 damage in a turn (with action surge).
Kid casts synaptic static.
Mornie shoots the jaundice and it seems to be gone? Then the leftover shadows go to the pig. Web dissapears.
Arienh hits the kid with her special sword. Wildfire spirit also comes over.
yochlol hangs down with Airell and tries to dominate him. Fails, and Airell kills it.
Kid casts hold monster, it works on MK and wildfire spirit fail.
Waldorf turns invisible.
Airell kills the kid. The arrow pins him to the body of Towren behind him.
Mornie heals BroSeb and shoots the salad. Water vapor comes out of him instead of blood.
Kellen traps the shard and now that is complete.
Arienh stabs Waldorf to death. Right through the heard, the water drips away… Mornie yells “grab the ring”.

Mornie checks the hole. Sounds like there’s some battle on top.
Arienh calls Cosima to tell her that all the shards were dealt with.
BroSeb banishes the demons.
Airell loots the bodies and finds a lot of things.
Kellen Contact Other Planes.
Kellen learns command words to Keledek’s tower.
IT crew and BroSeb fly up. There are more monsters to fight there.

At the end of the day, Hacrar finds Airell and wants to know everything.

Arienh asks Mornie if she wants Anders back. Mornie says only if he wants to. So Arienh ventures to Contact Other Planes to find that out. She asks Ferrin and he says that Anders will say no, but he’s stupid. He also says that Mornie wants this,but she’s not capable of asking for what she wants. It’s easier to suffer than to grow. She’s kinda stupid that way. They have a nice chat. She decides to True Ressurect Anders.
Kellen needs to turn some sharks in diamonds.
Mornie kinda smiles and asks what she needs to do. All will be good.

Epilogue:

12 years until the kioland army is back. The grayhawk wars last 12-15 years from the end of the events of this session.

Mornie wants to have a convo with the king about her continuing to train his army (special ops). Wanted to ask for the deed to Abby Isle for training these special people and a hospital for healing training as well. She created what she came from (the cycle of trauma continues). Every couple of months, asks Arien & Kellen to get these “special opps” to the king. These soldiers see lots of the Greyhawk Wars. Elliander rebuilds the Falling Star at his own expense. 8 years later, he delivers many troops to the king.
Mornie works on the Sphere of Annihilation. Kellen got a crown from Syrgal. It was half melted and is in the Hole. This crown controls this specific Sphere of Annihilation. (This will later be a trap in Kellen’s castle.)

Arien would bring Anders back (first monthish). He comes back to life in his room at the hospital. Anders is more confused about if he’s really alive or dreaming. Gives him the rough idea of what happened after he died.
Mornie and Anders have a moment? (Idk what is going on honestly, sorry.) Not a strong romantic relationship, very passive. He gets sick in his 50’s-60’s and dies peacefully.

Arien wants to find a place outside of Saltmarsh to build a new Druid Grove, a few hours from Saltmarsh (Salt Crest). Updating the Druid Conclave. Long term, she is slowly rebuilding the Old Faith. Making sure the Obelisks are okay. As part of the Greyhawk Wars is keeping the Obelisks safe at Rift Valley and the one in Ket. Near the end of the Wars, someone mucked around with the Rift in the Kingdom of Airde. The Old Faith becomes more formidable and people learn to leave the Obelisks alone. The blue dragon becomes the aquamarine dragon. The Moon is the VERY BOTTOM of the Underdark.

Kellen will shut herself in a room for two weeks. Make sure the wizards patch the sunroof.
Try to have a boring life for some time. Amanda will come back and have a baby. Kellen will make trinkets for kids and a crib for this baby that will rock itself. Kellen introduces bicycles and jet skies.
Figures out how to power back up the Sea Cow and bring it back to Saltmarsh.
Helps rebuild the Falling Star, steam powered things all over (small things like flushing toilets and light switches). Puts a teleportation circle in the gazebo. Splits her time between the Falling Star and the Castle.
Goes to Zaggig’s plane and has a shit ton of fun (yay). Arien goes with her. Sends these two on a scavenger hunt as a way to show Kellen inspiration for the Castle.
Over the years, Kellen will become the Mad Scientist. This Castle will take decades.
40 years later, Kellen will live in Saltmarsh for the rest of her life. She will take apprentices and keep building contraptions. Builds a lab on the outside of Saltmarsh.
The Greenhands (Amanda’s eight children) end up working for the IT Crew. Several end up at Abby Isle. Kellen → Qellen in Mornie’s spy network.

MK fights with Arn in the King’s army. Arn is 27 when they all come home. Returns the family axe and shield to Arn. MK and Arn go back to Yeomanry to rebuild. This takes a long time to rebuild. MK gives all the family land to Arn. The crazy uncle dies with a spear to the chest. Before his death, the three of them were a family. MK finds a husband in a fancy rug merchant and has three children. Arn also has a wife and one child.

Bro-Sep helps make sure that everything is settled in Greyhawk. He does damage control, basically. Checks in on Divers. Checks in on the demon armies with the larger banishments. Spends a lot of time with MK. Tends to the sick and injured.
Towards the end of his life, trains a few bishops of Row to hold the Crook of Row. He builds a whole group of paladins that their whole job is to protect the bearer and the Crook. Helps out to build a giant blanket to protect the Flanese from summoning more demons. Because of this, the Crook cracks and Bro-Sep stops any further magic.
Bro-Sep and Kellen dream together, aka art therapy for Kellen.
Takes a pilgrimage to Saltmarsh to paint it as it is rebuilt. It is called “Consequences of Good Deeds.” Gives it to the IT Crew.

Airell spends his time rebuilding Saltmarsh and Greyhawk. Builds a “better” relationship with Eliander. Has a teleportation circle in his house in Greyhawk. Airell still does heists. (One of them is robbing the Tower of the Silent Ones with Kellen & Mornie.)
He is undermining Feldron for fun originally, then later becomes serious. Shadow baker of plays that hype up the IT Crew & downplay Feldron. He basically creates his own underground play culture that is very anti-government.
Ket invasion. Has the armies of Seaton and Saltmarsh join in. Leave the army when Feldron says that he is king. The Southwestern part of Keioland is in open resistance to “The New King.”
Hires out medium level wizards to set up personal teleportation circles in larger cities. Airell hasn’t aged a day (thanks to potions of longevity).
Makes little cashes of his stuff in many cities because why not.
Robs Yusgrolir, because why the fuck not?
When he gets older, works on his Deck of Many Things and does not succeed.
The Silent Ones mess with Hakrar’s memories and works something out with them to stop messing with him.
Temple raids because WHY NOT?!

Bro-Seb is the first to go. MK would be the next to go, 20-30 years afterward. She would be buried next to Arn’s father. Airell is the next to go and they don’t know for a little while. Airell is buried in Saltmarsh. Kellen will go in an experiment gone wrong to become a ghost in the Castle. She becomes the Castle, basically. The body of Kellen is almost perfectly preserved. Arienh is aging and needs to find a successor. Mornie, the timeless, would gain the trust of the leaders of the world and expand her connection of spies.




Session 131 7/4/2025 - ML
Late afternoon, Godsday, summer solstice. We are scattered across Divers. Bro Seb has just banished most of the demons, Iuz has left with a small team for Saltmarsh, Arienh has sent to Cosima to give her a heads up.

Mornie uses the sword to proclaim victory and to gather the IT crew. Bro Seb hears and goes, “That sounds familiar. No, can’t be…”

Mornie picks up Arienh, Airell asks to be taken to Bro Seb, Kellen starts heading toward Mornie and Arienh. Bro Seb meets Airell part way and Airell asks him to join us. Kellen feels the Chained Oblivion move and the tendral that connects them moves as well. Something is moving the Chained Oblivion and Kellen can feel the change in the world as things are being unmade.

We gather at last and share info. Airell gives Arienh a 9th level spell slot. We run to the nearest tree and Arienh uses the spell scroll to tree port to the Sea Grove. Bro Seb has never tree ported before and is also unprepared for typhoon levels of rain and thunderstorm. It is night here. And hot. We hear the noise of battle. Cosima and Anders are standing there waiting for us. We immediately head out.

Mornie hands Arienh a potion of invulnerability and turns to Anders and asks if he will help us. “We need you. I need you.” (Kellen: “Kiss him!!”) Anders pulls himself together and Arienh sees the look of someone making peace with dying today. He agrees and Mornie kisses him on the cheek.

Saltmarsh is burning. Everyone is fighting. Eliander leads a group, the gnomes of Kellenville are exploding things in a range of colors. They built traps and weapons and the demons are blundering through. At the standing stones a pillar of iridescent light shows the beginning of Iuz’s process. He is there and has begun to unmake the world.

In the water is the zombie Kraken fighting ships. Over Siren’s point the Phitari hovers, the undead Baelor. We hear chanting and Welgar calls on his god to control the waves and weather.

We prep spells, etc. and fly or are carried by fliers across. Mornie pulls out the sword and yells to the Saltmarsh fighters that we will rebuild and to keep fighting and this battle is sponsored by Baron Airell.

We land near the stones and the battle begins. We all get hit by Iuz and the planetar drops. We all attack, Iuz shifts forms, Anders shoves MK toward Iuz.

In the Saltmarsh battle Herr Zane falls to the zombie kraken.

Back to the Iuz battle, Anders dies.
Saltmarsh battle - Commoners join. Fighting happens. Some demons start infighting.

Iuz casts a giant circle of dark pain, bro Seb is making death saves, Mornie gives him a healing potion. Iuz tries to feeblemind Arienh but fails. Mornie attacks the phatari with a nat 20.

Saltmarsh battle - commoners pull down the Goristro. Kiorna Kestral is dead.

Iuz still sucks but doesn’t take control of the godtrap. Bro Seb uses the Crook of Rao to melt away the darkness.

Saltmarsh battle - Hezrou bands die. Nolan Oneshoe dies. Vroc hunters are dead.

Airell summons an earth elemental and Arienh throws her figurine of wondrous power to turn it into a t-rex. Kellen is taking control of the stones.

Arienh hits Iuz a few times and Kellen casts baby shark magic missiles.

Saltmarsh battle - Yusgrolir brings a new ship, panics, sets off the detonation, and his ship blows up. Welgar parts the water to drop the eye of the deep.

Airell shoots Iuz and kills the anima of Iuz and Kellen traps him. The strength of Iuz appears instead. Then as MK looks away for a moment Airell grabs MK and dashes with her closer to Iuz. Iuz switches to the guile of Iuz.

Guile of Iuz appears, and casts antimagic field.
Mornie pops back on the nightmare, steadies her aim and shreds it. Firing her gun through MK’s space she shatters both shoulders of Iuz. Iuz uses legendary resistance to hold on to the animagic field.

Iuz attacks MK, throws her blade away to the edge of the cliff. She gets it back, but the anti magic shield is not doing us any favors. Things are not looking great.

Guile flies to Kellen and takes her to almost dead. Airell shoots him a bunch. Mornie attacks the phatari.

Saltmarsh - Eliander dies. Then he gets revived.

Kellen briefly loses control of the stones. Kellen and MK die, but we give them potions.

Iuz switches to strength of Iuz.

MK finally gets a hit. Mornie discovers that necrotic doesn’t work on the Strength. MK goes down but turns out Airell used subtle spell earlier to cast death ward on MK so she pops back.

Saltmarsh - Gellen is dead. Copperlocks brigade turns on Saltmarshers thanks to some demon thing. Cosima leads the remains of the Saltmash fighters to kill the final demons, and Thok.

The Strength takes out MK, Arienh, and Bro Seb. Airell attacks the strength then gives Arienh a potion. The earth elemental destroys the Strength.

Arienh becomes a planetar and Iuz makes her flame strike Kellen, Bro Seb (he’s dead), and the colocation matrix.

Kellen is desperately working on the stones and Airell kills another shard. The shard disappears into kellen’s cage and the guile reappears. Last one!

Guile goes, turns trex into a stone and drops it into the water. It turns back into trex as it’s falling and takes a bunch of fall damage. Then the Guile lands right next to Arienh and turns her back into herself. He then knocks her out. Planetar is gone.

Guile attacks Mornie. Airell hits him with a poisoned arrow. For the fourth time, Airell drops the shard to 0 hp. He heals Arienh and Kellen traps the shard. The force holding the Phatari fades and it disappears.

Mornie revivifies Bro Seb.

Kellen checks her connection to the standing stones to see what she can figure out. She feels that the world works a little differently than it did before, but the plan worked and the world is saved.

When Arienh goes to ask Mornie about the boat to cross to the mainland, Mornie points to Anders and asks what we should do. Arienh says he should be buried here by the standing stones he helped to protect. Mornie takes the soul she collected when Anders died ***

Arienh, Mornie, and Bro Seb cross over to Kellenville. Cara Rist (survivor of the falling star) and her team stagger out to meet us. She looks at us and asks, “Is it done?” Arienh says, “It’s done.” We head deeper into Saltmarsh to help clear it out.

Airell searches for Eliander. The rest of us help with clean up and search and rescue. Kellen stays at the standing stones. Bro Seb banishes the remaining demons.

Airell asks Eliander if he has a way to contact the king. He replies, “Not hanging you was probably the best accidental mistake of my life.”

Kellen spends the night by the stones, MK goes back to check on her. Bro Seb helps get people to the hospital. Mornie goes to the hospital and continues the work she had done there previously. The bishop asks her where Anders is and she just shakes her head.

Arienh continues to help through the night. Cosima finds her and says, “Did I do right by you?” “You were everything that I knew you could be. Well done.” And Cosima stays beside her the rest of the night.

Airell stays with Eliander for the rest of the night doing the Baron thing and helping oversee. Near the end of the night he teleports back to Kellen to ask about the sending stone to Corden. Airell uses the stone to update the king. He spends the rest of the night mending the matrix.

Eventually we all sleep where we are. Kellen is awoken as the colocation matrix flips on, the gauntlet starts activating. The town starts to mobilize immediately, bells go off.

Airell gets a sending from Hacrar saying the guild of wizardry is overrun with demons and they need help.





Session 130 6/14/2025 - MS
Starday, Richfest 1st. We have walked into the trap of the Red Minstrel. Fought off waves of demons and others, and made it out mostly unscathed. Sorhel is dead at the moment. It’s our hope to get her back and the Red Minstrel is now ready for us.

He starts pontificating and Kellen starts shooting at him. He has a sourceless music that surrounds him and he aims his first shot at Mornie. He hurts her and then moves on to attack Kellen. Arienh tries to attack, but fails and he retaliates against her with psychic pain. A skeletal form bursts out of the Red Minstrel and it spreads its bony wings surveying the scene. Kellen then starts blasting the Red Minstrel and staggers him. He has retaliations for all of the attacks that miss. This is getting very hard to attack him! MK runs in and grapples him to the ground. Airell casts Silence and the RM escapes from MK’s grasp. Arienh attacks with magic and the skeleton protects RM from most of the damage. MK shoots at RM, misses, and the RM throws the scimitar at MK, but MK catches it and throws it back. It’s a fumble-fest as they attack each other. Mornie runs up to RM and slams the Memory of Ruin into him. She hits him hard with all her anger and roars at him using the sword.

Kellen swoops down and attacks RM and pushes him away from her. RM dives, teleports, and flips away. IT Crew keeps taking damage from his music. He hops next to Arienh and Mornie steadies her gun, C-Section, and blows right through RM’s temple. He falls over as Mornie’s gun announces, “Hello! I’ve just killed a man! And I’ve done it on purpose!” Airell drops his spell and yells, “Who was this guy?” The skeleton form separates and then flies off to the East, towards Divers, and disappears.

Arienh sends the fire spirit to teleport Sorhel out of the bladed noose to Revivify her. Airell loots the RM body…or at least tries to. RM is rotting away, including the blades. He does find the Sending Stone.

The rest focus on saving the Falling Star crew.

Arienh gets a moment of nausea and is ported into a vision. She’s on a canoe and the sky is cloudless and still. She sees Sorhel heading towards the shore where there are dozens of friends and family waiting there. Standing to the side is Ryder Oland, who had been killed by the vampires. She is moving quickly towards them, but then stops. Arienh asks if she wants to go or to keep fighting. Arienh senses that Sorhel is ready to go, but will return if Arienh asks. Arienh tells her to go and to tell them thank you. She then dives into the water, and sees through the clear water that Sorhel is finally whole.

17 crew survived of the 90. 10 of which are from the original crew.

We see Arienh come around the corner. Mornie walks up to Arienh and asks if the spell worked. Arienh said that it was time for Sorhel to go. Mornie nods and says, “I understand.” Her masks falls a little and some tears come as she walks away. Kellen overhears, says a prayer of remembrance and celebration for the fallen. Mornie starts coordinating the building of a pyre to burn the fallen. Airell takes a hike to get over to the Falling Star to see what he can grab. He is able to find the Altas ((Mornie’s bofh), cartographer’s tools (Mornie’s bofh), and the navigator’s tools (Mornie’s bofh). He does find one of the chests of silver coins (51,000). It is hard to see how mangled the ship is. The IT Crew decides to light the ship on fire to be the resting place for the crew who died on the ship. Arienh lights it on fire using the gunpowder.

The IT Crew watches the pyre late into the night. Mornie asks them if they want to fight or go home and be done. Cara is indignant about this and says that they all want to go with the IT Crew. They decide to take a couple with them and send the rest back to Saltmarsh. Two of the King’s soldiers volunteer to go along with the IT Crew. Mornie writes a writ to Gellan about the honor of these fighters and to put them in positions to help with the fortifications of Saltmarsh. She sends with Cara the sending stone to Cosima, which means Mornie gives the matching stone to Arienh. Kellen puts down a teleportation circle to send the 15 to Keledek’s tower in Saltmarsh. The two soldiers join the IT Crew to go to Divers.

The IT Crew teleports to the army and it’s very, very dark - lots of Ip trees. Arienh befriends another tree in Carter’s Meadow.

MK hugs Arn. Arn puts together that the soldiers with us are from the Falling Star and asks if everything is ok. MK says no and gives a brief summary.

We are all taken to see the King. The soldiers explain what happened. The king winces at the news of Darvin’s death as he grew up with and knew Darvin well. The standards are given and honored. The loss of the falling star is big but at least the red minstrel and his army are gone so they made it count.

As we leave Arn comes up to Arienh. There are some people who were here before the army got here who came waiting for Arienh. They look like Arienh’s people, but the people around here know them. They asked for Arienh by name and title.

In the middle of the tiny town is a tavern which is where 9 very plain, homespun type forest people wait. The woman who stands and speaks identifies herself as Hildefair Parabis. She approaches Arienh and introduces herself as the archdruid of the Gnarled forest. They have come to recognize the new high druid. Arienh detects from her some conflicting assessments. First, “Really? This person?” She’s kind of stumbling over her words and trying to feel out Arienh who is not who she expected. Second, this is a gruff, stoic, egalitarian people. Just coming to recognize is their equivalent of paying homage. No kneeling is going to happen here.

She says, “Several of us saw visions of you standing before the great enemy. We saw other figures of the old faith kneeling before you and the Dawn singer face down before you in the dirt.” She clearly distains him.

“We’ve come here to help the army of foreigners, to help as guides where we can.”

She gestures to one of the party (all druids of various levels). He pulls out a puzzle box type thing and she offers any of the artifacts of theirs that Arienh wants.

Kellen starts to detect magic on the three bark scrolls in the box, and the druids look at her funny. One scroll is abjuration and two are conjuration.

Arienh says she is honored to meet them and, while she does not wish to take anything of theirs that would be useful to them, we are about to fight a great evil and would appreciate any help they can give.

The scrolls are two of transport via plants and one of druid grove. Arienh says she would be honored to take one of the transport via plants scrolls.

Hilda invites us to dinner to tell stories and share who we are. They came here because of a vision, but have no idea who Arienh actually is. We accept.

Short rest.

We travel with the army. It’s a forced march so that we can get to Dyvers quickly and deal with Iuz’s army. Turns out part of the city of Dyvers has fallen. Iuz doesn’t have any siege weaponry/fortifications at all. He just wants things to end quickly so he throws everything at it.

The IT Crew heads off with the vanguard and circle around the city so that they’re approaching from the east. When they get to Dyvers, they see an army of ghouls, the balor, beetle creatures, but no demons.

Arienh pulls out the heroes’ feast - a picnic in the forest!

Kimbertos leads the first charge into the enemy army. It startles the army as they didn’t expect it to come from the east. Arienh is able to sense where Iuz is. The clerics of the army open up gates to the demon army in the different realm. The spells consume the clerics as their souls are used to open the portals. The creatures that come out of the portals are horrendous. Kimbertos’s army is able to crack the original onslaught and the demon army is fractured. Iuz wants to buy time to leave the battlefield to get over to Saltmarsh. Our goal is to deny him.

Skill Challenge:
Mornie plays bait with the generals of the other army (persuasion - success)
Arienh creates pitfalls of acid underneath the demons (spell casting - success)
Airell provided extra information to help the army (perception - success)
MK provides tactical assessment to the generals (insight plus three superiority dice - success)
Kellen deceives the demon army by conjuring an image of a frightening dragon (deception - success)
Airell destroyed the undead by using Turn Undead (channel divinity - success)
Kellen sends a fog cloud out to one of the towers cause chaos (spell - success)
MK takes down one of the towers (athletics - success)
Arienh overlooks the battle field and starts communicating the fluctuations to the battle generals (insight - success)
Mornie does demon wrangling and smashes them into each other and disrupt them (acrobatics - success)
Mornie calls out the demons by name (using her past knowledge) to disrupt the focus of the demon generals (performance - success)
Arienh sees an opening in the battle where the hobgoblin siege weapons are vulnerable. She works with Arn to help them get to the right spot. (survival - success)

The Sight of Iuz is glaring at Arienh and Arienh glares back. Iuz casts a teleportation circle including a warband of demons. The city of Dyvers does not fall!! They then see the rest of the demon army disappear - Bro Seb!!!

Arienh calls Cosima - Iuz teleporting to you with demons. We will be there in minutes. Get Anders and meet at Tree.It’s time.

Inspiration: Arienh and MK
Session 129 6/7/2025 - LA
Godsday Wheelsun 25. Greenhands are not there. There’s a letter from Kellen’s mother - very terse, saying that they moved because Saltmarsh is not a place for expectant mother and a child. Amanda stuffed the cupboards with a lot of food. Long rest will be completed on the morning of Richfest 1st.
There are mercenary groups that moved into town. They have camps, they are in the inns. Three warships in the bay - Sack of Monmurg and The Bastion that we took from Duke Feldrin.
Kosima brought them all here by a talking raven. People are not afraid, but it’s tense. Everyone is preparing.
Mornie goes to the hospital to “help prepare” and maybe see Anders.
Kellen wakes up after a terrible night of sleep. And now she also remembers her weird behavior towards Mornie. She goes to confront Airell. He denies and doesn’t know what she’s talking about. Kellen doesn’t believe him, but then finally remembers that she gave it to him long long time ago and feels very shameful. She wants to apologize to Mornie, but she’s already gone.

Airell casts Sending to Mordenkainen in Hell. Success with getting rid of notes. Kellen wants to know if we can use your tower if it has a teleportation circle. Response: excellent.yes, tower has a circle speak “mordenkainen’s periferal permissions” and you will have access to it. Nothing else.
Airell calls Hacrar and says “successful with the baron. Will bring body as proof. Please tell wizards will transfer tomorrow. “ Hacrar is very excited.

Mornie goes to the hospital and there’s a traffic jam. Everyone is staring at her, she forgot to become invisible. People murmur around her. Bishop of Pelor comes out to greet her. She says she just there to help. They are mainly preparing, not sure what to expect. He gestures to the warehouse that is mostly empty with some people with minor injuries. He says the biggest thing they need is washed linens. She happily accepts. Everyone else feels weird about it.
Her main reason there is to make herself available to assure people that even though things are coming, they are there and things will be okay.
At some point Anders walks out and sees her, but hides back quickly. He doesn’t live here anymore, he’s a member of the sea grove.
Arienh just rests, checks in with Kosima a bit, but nothing for her to do in sea grove. There are stories coming out already about Siren’s point.
MK starts workshopping a new song in a nearby tavern. Even Hannah gives her a compliment.
Kellen figures out that Matrix has <100hp.
MK attunes to the sword. It has a feeling of wrongness to it. It’s an unholy weapon.
MK now wears beautiful metal plate.
Kellen talks to Mornie and puts it on Airell. Mornie goes to complain to Arienh.
Arienh goes to talk to Airell and give him crap. He continues to deny. Arienh figures that Kellen is lying and gets her to confess. She tells Mornie, but not Airell.
MK dreams to Arn to give him updates and chat. She makes a nice dreamscape that freaks him out. He says they reached Verba bank today. King is planning to rest the army for 2 days. Darwin and the FS harassed the Red Minstrel’s force and let the rest of the army go through. Not many casualties. Setting out for divers on the 28th. It’s going to be a hard march. Will try to cross 40 miles in a day.
MK says they can be there on the 28th.
The king is upset over something. FS cook, the dwarven woman came on foot and delivered a message and no one knows what happened. King met with his advisors and he had strong words with them.
Arn says he will be by a tree an hour after sunset.
They chill and talk together.

Next day.
In the morning - MK tells Arienh. Arienh Scries.
Kellen and Airell go to Kelledek’s tower. With the command phrase the fog clears enough to give them a pass to the room with the teleportation circle.

Airell goes to Greyhawk by himself with a head and a body of Relharnar.
Wheelsun 22 is named Airell Triumphant day. He officially granted citizenship and a residence in the Green Quarter.

Mornie talks to Sohrel - they are headed east toward Stallmar, FS is safe. Enemies are pressing in.

Airell comes back. On the evening of 27th IT crew steps through to Verbabonc. People stare. Town guards get surprised, but looks like someone warned them. Immediately go to the king who is stationed in a nice tavern in town.
His face darkens. His bodyguard approaches IT crew and tells them to wait for him in a private side room. He posts a pair of guards outside.
After some time kings steps in with Karden and his bodyguard. King pulls out two letters and looks at Airell. Airell recognizes one of them. King hands the other one to him. Airell reads it.
King asks if the rest of IT crew knew about this. Karden says that if they don’t know they probably don’t want to know.
King looks furious. Kellen doesn’t pick up on the vibes and tries to talk.
King tells everyone but Airell to leave.
The letter is from Sohrel saying that this forged document was given to Darwin.
Her plot is for the king to think that Darwin was following the fraudulent orders so he can die a hero. She knew that Darwin will never believe the letter himself.

Once it’s just Airell in the room. Kings says - I can strip your of your lands and titles and make you a criminal in every corner of Keoland. As will anyone who aided you. There were more than a few voices who questioned elevating you to nobility. But I overruled them. I said Airell Aloro is a good man. I don’t fault you for not following our code, but to manipulate an honorable man IN MY NAME! (He bellows). Karden flinches.
Airell silently looks at him.
Karden takes both documents and tosses them into the fire.
The king sighs and says that they both know he’s not going to do the things he threatens. It will be too much for morale. And therefore that order has been recorded as his in the annals. A coldly calculating order that doomed 200 men for the greater good. Their deaths are on your head. I will never forget. Now get the hells out of my sight and stay there.
The bodyguard steps forward to usher Airell out of the room. Airell bows and walks towards the door. At the door he says “Darwin was a good man”. Karden shushes him.
Karden walks IT crew to their quarters. He stops in front of a home and says there are quarters prepared for them there. Karden looks down - when king found out I reached out to Darwin and he said it was too late to turn back and asked for forgiveness of the king. It was not your choice to make. It was a very very bad things you did, Airell.  Don’t ever do it again.
Airell responds: Darwin deserved the peace of mind.

The townhouse has a tannery on the first floor. It smells. There’s a customer in there. He recognizes Airell, they chat for a bit. It looks like duke Feldrin to Airell. But he has a twinkle in his eye. He says that is a rare one - shielding others blah blah blah. It’s clearly not Feldrin. He asks Airell for a walk.
Everyone else is surprised that Airell knows this person, but it’s not that surprising.
Airell goes with not-Feldrin. They talk about oaths and personal loyalties. And that’s why he’s here. To the others his lie was an incantation. Even in the state of existential threat they cling to their rules. Airell gets free Divination. He asks if there’s anything they can do to better their chances at successful capturing him in the godtrap. Alademara is silent for a few moments. Tactically - Iuz is not one being, he’s a scabbard with four broken pieces. Only one pieces can be drawn at a time and broken in turn. It will never be more than a collection of broken pieces. That’s why he wants to flip over the board and throw it away.
The best chance of beating him - one at a time. The mad god’s little helper made a device exactly for that . Iuz is moving in a straight line towards the trap and IT crew can pick the battlefield.

Text to speech: Has been. Not true at all, but not entirely wrong new five share one thing with the rest of us to intervene in several places at once already you’ve been pulled into directions and soon you’ll be pulled in three more I use is on the move towards endgame, the remaining two charges are still out there scrambling with a new plan but still active and you have made each of them. Wait to move one that’s their mistake. He meals down for the first time they have seen in UV initiative for once they’re waiting for you to act and it will be on the battlefield of your choosing your Hedgewick friend has seen it. I use Travel and he draws his finger in the dirt in the mock of the road in the straight line towards the gnome destination Where the mad ones little helpers built a trap that I use has to walk into the only place that can go stand up and we are taking advantage of those factors you are not allowed. You are our most powerful agents. I guess you say last best hope but we are in place as well and we have done what we can to steamy and so that all these things don’t happen at once so that you’ll have the chance to do the things that at the end of the world, but matter to you, but make no mistake. There will be no respite from here now all these things are going to come crashing down and rapid order. We can only delay so long prepare yourselves for that. Do not spend your resources frivolously but do not hold them be decisive and act without hesitation. He stands up other non-ending questions.

Airell asks if his order made it to Gradsul? Alademara has she has no idea, it’s too small for her.

Airell returns. Planning time. Fight Iuz in Dyvers to weaken the army as much as possible. And then fight him again in Greyhawk near the godtrap to capture the shard.
Kellen gives Arn her talisman so they can catch up with the army once they are rested. They need one more day.

Long rest finished.

Early afternoon on the 1st of Richfest. Mornie hears a voice coming through her sending stone from Sohrel. It is a soft menacing voice saying “I’m disappointed. You missed our ensemble finale. No matter. Our coda can be an intimate affair. I already assembled the audience.”
Mornie tells everyone about Red Minstrel’s performances.
Arienh Scries on Sohrel. She is outdoors, it smells of smoke, blood and feces. Destruction.
There’s a flash of lighting through the window and all IT crew sees what Arienh sees.
Sohrel stands atop a broken house balancing on a beam. Her hands are bound. There’s a noose of chain around her neck with shards of glass in it. She’s injured and bruised. Her eyes covered in soot. The village is a scene of a battle. The village is in a valley. A quarter mile away is huge farmland. 12-15 miles away there’s a river. There’s a town next to that river. Darwin’s forces made their last stance at the hill near that village.
Beyond the devastation - Falling Star is there, smashed into the hillside. Bodies everywhere. Not just humans, dead demons everywhere. Looks like Sohrel smashed the falling star rather than give it to the demons.
Red Minstrel’s army is broken, only a few demons left.
There are gallows with the crew of the fallen star.
At the convergence of the road in the middle of the town square is a gnarled tree. Around it are spikes with heads on it. Darwin, troops that Mornie and MK trained, others. They are showing signs of rot.
Everyone is looking inward towards the town square. All large trees are cut down, except for this one.
there are dozens of enemies waiting around. Bunch of northenders parenlanders. Halberds and pikes. What remains of the demonic forces.
There’s a form standing next to one of the captives idly carving flesh away from Kara Rist. We all know her.
He’s horrific and absurd. He has a demi-cape, red leather armor, twin scimitars across his back, hood looks like jester’s hat. Long thin chin. He looks like an elongated elf. Looks like he has white paint and eye shadow, but that’s just his face.  Looks like he filed his teeth to sharp points. He tries so hard to be edgy.

He looks directly at IT crew. His smile grows wider, with a single leap he jumps onto the roof. He moves up to the sensor and speaks directly: Too long, too long you kept me waiting. You missed the grand finale. But I’m adaptable. We will savor this moment together.
The flicker of mirror image with a screaming skull of Iuz follows Red Minstrel.
Don’t want too long. I’m already growing impatient.
At that point Sohrel blinks with realization. She looks there, stands up tall and starts chuckling. She says “oh buddy, you fucked up. Those are demigods of violence. And you pissed all of them all.”.
Red minstrel doesn’t like being interrupted and sends a dagger into her left eye. Sohrel staggers, but pushes herself upright. She looks at him and wants to spit.
She smiles. “You misjudged every part of it. You ain’t the predator here.”. She takes a deep breath a yells “IT Crew, come fuck this guy up”. He trips her up and she falls with the noose getting taught around her neck.

IT Crews runs to a nearest tree.
Skill challenge fight. Helping Sohrel is a fail:
Mornie jumps around shooting everyone in sight. (Acrobatics 35). Her guns start to talk.
Chain with Sohrel goes still
MK cuts people down and thunder follows her. (Attack 29)
Airell brings his duplicate to confuse everyone, runs around stabbing everyone. (Deception 27)
Arienh casts plant growth (Spell 13) doesn’t work.
Kellen brings her armor, flies up and starts to strategically eldritch blast the biggest threats (Investigation 20).
Round 2
Mornie tries to fake a lot (Sleight of hand 20). Fail.
Airell starts shooting, teleports around to get out of a bind (Attack 27)
Arienh picks enemies with Wand of magic missle (Perception 29)
Kellen Charm Monster the two baddest looking monsters to get them out of the fight (Spell 24)
MK bait and switches (Strength 22 and then 19) 8
Round 3
Sohrel is dead
Mornie makes herself bait (Persuasion 34)
Kellen drops 2 Synaptic Statics on the cluster of mobs running for Mornie (Nat 20, one of the failures got downgraded).
MK action surges and starts throwing mods into each other and into pile for Kellen (34)
Airell is mage handling into MK’s attacks (Sleight of hand Nat 20)

Definitive victory.
Arienh’s spirit starts teleporting people out of their bonds.

Red Minstrel steps out from the shadows. With a slow clap. Still a mirage of the screaming head around him. Reaches out to grasp his swords. There are faint sounds of instruments.

Inspiration: Airell



Session 128 6/1/2025 - ML
An hour after midnight we run through the tree in the sea grove. The city is quiet. MK is carrying the unconscious body of Ral Halnar. We take a minute to heal and for Arienh to find Cosima. Airell and MK strip the armour off Ral Halnar. We put Cosima in charge of running interference because releasing the shard will attract a lot of attention.

In the process of taking healing potions, Kellen takes a potion that turns out to be a love potion. Then she sees Mornie… Things get a little weird. We put it down to Kellen cracking under stress. Mornie gives another great hug. It makes it worse. Mornie’s medicine check doesn’t reveal the reason.

We start walking towards the standing stone, MK carrying Ral Halnar and Kellen holding Mornie’s hand and telling us about how the standing stones work. Kellen takes the talisman back.

An hour after we arrived in Saltmarsh we get to the standing stones. The town is starting to come to life, Cosima’s runners are spreading messages and Cosima meets us at the standing stones. She tells us she has talked to Gellan and sent a message to Welgar. She has men out in the bay on the warships and mercenaries preparing in case things go poorly.

Kellen starts activating the stones. MK kills Ral Halnar. Immediately the Fury of Iuz unfolds, looks at Arienh and she feels the pull towards him. She realizes it was this shard that her ancestor (and Ral Halner’s) carved off. Others of the Oeland family also feel the pull. Arienh can either keep the shard’s attention here or let it go off to find a new host. She chooses to keep it’s attention here.

Mornie tries to attack, but is charmed by the shard and cannot attack it. Kellen uses the matrix to make the shard burn a save.

Airell casts dissonant whispers. None of our held attacks work because we are charmed. The shard possess Arienh and now she is fighting the party as the shard.

Persuasion fails, direwolves are cast, MK stabs herself on Arienh’s orders. Mornie convinces the shard back out and it attacks. Lots of attacking back and forth. MK keeps getting charmed so Arienh casts protection from evil and good on her.

The shard attacks the standing stones which is bad. Kellen casts mental prison on the shard but it keeps attacking the matrix through the damage.

Then it comes for Arienh again but she resists the possession this time. Now that MK can’t be charmed she finally gets to hit the shard.

Airell casts haste on Kellen so she can restart the matrix. She isolates the shard and it can’t move and she shouts, “Kill it now!”

So Mornie shoots Arienh. “The shard made me do it.” Arienh is dead.

Airell shoots the shard and kills it! Kellen’s standing stone matrix shoots rainbow lights to form an energy cage around the shard. The cage shrinks and pulls the shard into the godtrap.

Airell casts healing word on Arienh.

We spend the next few hours talking to towns people such as Gellan. Turns out Cosima has been gathering forces, ships, etc.

Mornie talks to Sorrel. “We have taken down Ral Halnar. At Saltmarsh. What is your status? We need to know if our presence is needed and when and where.”

Reply: “Not immediately needed. We are safe. Harassing the enemy. Perinlanders, demons, lead by red minstrel. Army of Keoland advancing safely. Tell Airell sorry.”

Kellen dreams to Arn on the night of the 26th and tells him to stand by a tree. Arienh scrys on the tree. We travel by tree and then long rest. Long rest starts on the 24th.

Inspiration: Kellen
Session 127 5/17/2025 - MS
IT Crew transports in with Keledek’s Wish spell. He puts us in two clumps. The shards are waiting for us. Kellen loses her angel form because of Towren. Baedraon tries to attack MK and succeeds by throwing a dagger that is pretty nasty. A hail of thorns attacks Airell as he is confused holding up a gem that he just swiped from a treasure chest in the dungeon. A green beam hits Keledek in the chest. That was Tasha!

Keledek tries to set up a wall of force, but Tasha thwarts him. Rel Hjalnar runs up to the Eladrin to get to Arienh, but it seems that the focus is on the wildfire spirit. He knocks the Eladrin back 15 ft.

MK runs at Tasha and grapples her. She feels her up and grabs the notes and then drags Tasha towards the water. MK then holds Tasha down and yells that she has the notes. Tasha then paralyzes MK with Hold Person.

Mornie shoots at Waldorf and sees that he’s a rogue. Bastard.

Rel Hjalnar starts attacking Arienh. He swings his sword and tries to blind her with his radiance, but it fails. Arienh isn’t falling for his charismatic presence. Arienh tried to fight back but his armor absorbed her attacks.

The tree then attacks MK and tries to squeeze her. Tasha then releases the Hold Person spell after taking the book. She winks away and shows up by the fire spirit.

Kellen sets off synaptic static and hurts Rel Hjalnar and Towren. She flies up to the ceiling to get away from the bugs and then moves to be within range of Tasha.

Airell tries to take away the notes from Tasha with his invisible mage hand, but she slaps it away. She can see invisible things!!!!! She then freezes him with a glare.

Towren flies up 15 ft. and then tries to hit Mornie, but Keledek dispels the attack with an arrogant repudiation.

Waldorf then twists his ring and disappears. Mornie yells, “Copycat!!”

Towren tries to hit Keledek and it fails. Mirror image!!!

Keledek casts Telekinesis on the book to yank it out of Tasha’s hands. She tries to counterspell and Kellen flings a rock at her to stop the spell. It works! Keledek now has the book. Keledek telekinetically yanks Arienh towards him. Tasha tries to disintegrate Keledek, but it ends up disintegrating the wall of force surrounding the sending stones.

Arienh starts wailing on Rel Hjalnar with her sword. He’s looking rough…but still handsome.

The tree then attacks MK and wraps its roots around her. She’s looking pretty beat up, but she reacts and gets away from it.

Towren dispels Keledek’s mirror image and then attacks Keledek and deals a significant amount of damage.

Rel Hjalnar attacks Arienh, but forgets to smite. Obviously he was overwhelmed with her beauty….wait. No, that’s not right. Must have been her overwhelming presence. Yeah, that’s right.

Kellen turns Keledek into a giant ape. Towren then dispelled the polymorph. Dick move.

Tasha then kills Keledek and picks up the book of notes. She holds her additional attack.

Arienh drops Tenser’s and asks Tasha, “Plane shift?” Tasha smiles. Arienh casts “plane shift” on Tasha and Tasha doesn’t resist. She’s now gone to Carcera. Arienh then prays over the dragon vessel and takes the dragon potion. Poof! Green Dragon! The fire spirit poofs out because of the insect swarm.

Mornie took a heart shot at Rel Hjalnar, but it pings off his armor. Her necrotic gun, however, hits both Rel and Towren. She tries to hit Towren again but misses.

Kellen summons a construct to attack Towren, but it misses. Rel attacks the Eladrin and banishes it until its next turn. He then attacks Mornie. She swoons a bit.

Mornie brushes off his presence and hits him with the pommel of her sword and then her necrotic gun. He tries to smite her….no effect. Guess he likes strong women.

MK runs up to Rel and hits him with the ax. She resets and hits him again. He’s looking huuuuurt.

Towren focuses on Airell. Then flies over to the Arienh-agon to attack. Arienh attacks back and poisons him with her breath.

Airell comes back from across the river (guess he was resting from all of his shenanigans - poor little halfling) and he runs in to help with Rel Hjalnar. He knocks him out!

Kellen then is able to see Baedron heading towards the tree. Her armor has true sight.

Towren casts “Hold Monster” on Arienh and she crashes to the ground.

Mornie tries to hit Towren and misses twice. Waldorf throws his daggers at Kellen, hits, and she goes invisible.

Towren steps into the tree and disappears. As he’s stepping through, he yells, “Downfall.” A sigil in the ceiling flashes and a gate opens up. Burning rock falls through the arcane gate on top of the standing stones, which melts them. The molten magma covers the area of the standing stones, Airell, the construct, Kellen, and Arienh. Kellen loses her armor in the process.

Airell gets close to the tree and it attacks. Guess he’s barking up the wrong tree because it started wailing on him. Arienh is able to get rid of the “Hold Monster” spell.

Waldorf/Baedron escapes through the tree and the portal closes.

Kellen runs out of the magma and dashes towards the tree. Kellen rips out one of the gems from her armor and throws it at the tree and casts command. The heat is getting worse and the team gets closer to the tree to get out of there. Arienh casts the spell to get through the tree to Saltmarsh - in the Sea Grove.

Inspiration - MK and Arienh

Session 126 5/11/2025
Just after sundown on Sunday 23 of Wheelsun. IT crew windwalked as close as they dared and landed. At the end of no man’s land between the town and admundfort. It is a quarter mile to make sure any invaders need to cross it. The castle sits on the promontory, uphill. It is very easy to be spotted. There’s not a moat, but they dug down to make sure there’s a sheer ramp of rocks.
Illusion in the back feels like a setup. Tops of every tower are manned. Southeast tower is where Chasme demons are landing and taking off. Overhead - night mares. Castle is not on high alert yet.
Kellen sends arcane eye to investigate. Guards on the both sides of the gate. The gatehouse is occupied by a clan of gnomes. The tops of the gatehouse has clockwork ballistas, laboratory. Third floor - full of murder holes.
This castle is crammed to over capacity. Looks to be about dinner time. All the soldiers are different. Collection of 5-6 different gangs. Goblins, gnomes, bugbears, humans. discipline is loose.
Arienh and Airell ritual casting. Mornie is keeping an eye out.
People in town noticed the spellcasting.
Nobody in the courtyard with the trees. One shape there tending to them.
Big trees react to the arcane eye.
Middle Stairs unused - 4 soldiers in a room, wealthy barbarians, one from Kingdom of Furyondy. They are wearing trophy armor. Growl coming from the stairs, something is chained there. It’s not coming up. Looks like it maybe detected the eye.
Tree minder starts to move towards the eye. He’s a dark Druid and he casts dispel magic.

IT Crew hides inside the lake while Kellen is investigating.  They make a hut on the bottom of the lake. Arienh freezes the water to create flat floor.

Arienh takes the talisman, casts pass without a trace, gets out of the water and turns into a dragonfly. She flies around the north side and towards the window slit. She notices some activity on the towers. She gets in. The guards are talking to someone, saying they didn’t see anyone come through. The voice says “go check”. Arienh lands on the wall outside the window. Guard goes to look, but doesn’t find anything. He only has a tiny candle. He looks up too. He draws the sword and looks down the staircase. The other voice says “there definitely was someone there, go down a look”. The guard doesn’t want to go down there. With “whatever is down there”. Guard stays in the middle of the hallway, doesn’t want to be close to the staircase.
Arienh starts to fly down the staircase.  She gets to the landing. She starts smelling old rotten flesh and very astringent chemical smell. And faint smell of ozone.
Arienh turns human and calls Airell that she’s ready. Creature nearby.
Kellen teleports, hole is sideways, so things cling inside (MK catches the anvil). Something is moving on the bottom of the stairs.
Mornie goes invisible ghost. She goes through a wall and sees a walking corpse. It looks like a zombie, but it’s stitched together from different bodies. Smells of rot and chemicals. She recognizes a flesh golem.

Kellen sends the eye in. She sees a chained Barlgura. Barlgura sees her.
Airell looks out up for the guards coming in.

IT Crew jumps in the hole. Mornie takes it and walks to one of the store rooms. Mornie hears voices yelling that somebody is down there. She dashes through the walls past the golem. She dashes through an unknown wall and gets to a room of a mushroom forest. Mushrooms start screeching. It sets of cascading screeching down the hallways. Mornie runs back to the empty storeroom. She hears flesh golem move towards the mushroom alarm. She hears upstairs somebody screaming “we got them”. Mornie runs to the furthest room down and let’s everyone out.

Arienh casts locate object to locate the notes. They are acute angle down and close by. Mornie ghost burrows to try to find them. She goes 140 feet down and it’s just earth. She gets back to the fungi room. She sees another flesh golem. She sets off all the alarms. Mornie messages to Kellen that she’s okay and she’s setting things off on purpose. Mornie sees a pile of bodies on the stairs leading up. The bodies move, it is one thing - fungus covered pile of bodies. It starts moving towards her. She runs south. She finds a beholder and wall of vampires. More than a dozen. They look emaciated. They are crawling on the walls coming in her direction. She tries to run through the walls into rooms with more vampires. They start attacking, but she’s ducking away. Finally one of them grapples her. They all start to bite her. She teleports back to Kellen.

Two crossbow bolts are being shot into Airell and Keledek. Some very sneaky shape ducks behind a corner. Airell casts Shadowblade and tries to stealth around the corner. Kellen tries to call him back to stone shape the wall.

Long conversation on how to get down there. Arienh tries to walk around to triangulate the distance. She can’t quite figure it out and attracts the golem in the process. She manages to get on the other side of it.
Kellen runs after her.
Airell starts fighting the sneaky guy.
Now everyone is fighting. Keledek warns that lighting heals golems.
Keledek Banishes the golem. MK and Mornie move on the sneaky guy.
Airell decides to split the party and runs to the mushroom rooms.
With Kellen’s help Arienh figures out that notes are 300-350ft down. She takes Keledek and teleports down 325ft.
The land in a cavern with a standing stone and ALL THE SHARDS. AND TASHA. Tasha is holding the notes.
Keledek casts Maze on Rel Hjalnar and pushing the Druid with telekinetic shove.
Golem reappears, Kellen shoves it back into the wall with Eldritch blast.
Maze is dispelled.
Now there’s 2 fights.
Shards: Tasha is casting disintegrate on Keledek - he counterspells, she counterspells back, but fails the save. But that’s just his temp hit points. And then she disappears. No book in sight.
Towren is staring at Keledek. Swarms of bugs come out of him. He attacks Arienh. She got some negative inspiration from Baedron.
Arienh wants to get out. She misty steps and gets a wink (instead of a counterspell) from Tasha. Then she attacks the evil Druid (Towren Hisrschtal).
Rel Hjalnar is going for Arienh, ignoring Keledek.

Other side:
Mornie kills the assassin.
MK runs back and attacks the flesh golem.
Airell runs to vampires and tries to turn them. About ⅓ of them resist.
Mornie goes to shoot the golem and kills it.
Vampires scatter away from Airell. There’s one high vampire there who tells Airell to lie down and take a nap. Vampires attack him.

Shards:
Keledek shoves Rel Hjalnar and tells him he’s really failing at his job. Then he dimension doors then back up. Everyone but Airell catches up.
Mornie calls over to Airell. Airell’s busy fighting vampires. He casts Spirit Guardians through his shield, that makes some of them un-scared and they start attacking him.

Keledek says he can cast Wish to teleport everyone down.
Kellen - Planetar.
Arienh - Darkvision, Sword activated with Wyvern poison, Eladrin is out, Wildfire spirit is out, Tenser’s on. She still has 3 Mastermind dice on her.
Keledek - Mirror image
Mornie - Invisible, Ghost

Airell keeps fighting. He keeps running and finds 4 large chests with a room of vampires. He uses stone shape to close the doorway and goes to check out the chests. He opens one and it’s full of platinum. He barely dodges green blast, and fails poison check as the gas fills the room. The treasure disappears. He takes a potion and opens another chest. Another disintegrate. There’s generic treasure there, gemstone and one item in there. Airell grabs the gemstone (500gp).

Everyone teleports to the Shards.






Session 125 5/4/2025
Five weeks since we returned from the moon, 8 ish months since we left for the moon. MK and Mornie went to Valuna, Airell went to Ket and came back a few days later and a story of destroying an entire fortress starts to get around. Arienh and Kellen chill in Greyhawk and then head to Saltmarsh.

Kellen and Arienh have just plane shifted back with Keledeck into Keledeck’s tower. We stay in Saltmarsh one more night to do Cosima’s druid ceremony (on the 18th). She smokes the hallucinogenic seaweed and via the modified augury spell is led to the Circle of Stars. Kellen gets a contact high and sees futures that might have been. They are unpleasant. Cosima’s visions are worse. Arienh is seeing everyone else’s visions. Cosima is drawing out a star chart, and then the stars flash and are imprinted on it. Then the afterparty where Cosima joins the community in a new way. Kellen and Arienh are very much on the outside of this gathering. That night Kellen dreams to MK that they’re having tea in our gazebo. Kellen tells her we went to hell, talked to Mordenkainen, Tasha is working with the shards to do the obelisk thing again, MK and Mornie need to come back. We need to get Morty’s notes from [place] and send them to carceri.

Meanwhile, Airell sending stones to Mornie. We need to kill the navy leader attacking Greyhawk so the city isn’t destroyed. Mornie says you need this army (Kimbertos’) to cross the river.

While Kellen is dreaming  to MK, Arienh is falling into a vision. Burnt wheat, starless dome above, but this time she sees Celene with a triangular winged speck crossing it. A draconic protector and predator. Everything around her has been consumed with flame and the ash is running into the Nyr Div. The lake is churning like in a violent storm. To the right are the five shapes, this time none are in shadow. Reyna, Aineros dawnsinger, ??, Yiriell, and Dowbock. Icy winds push her on and ahead is the form of Iuz. Before he had been wading towards Arienh, but now he is turned and is heading towards the city of Divers and then straight ahead to Saltmarsh. Last time the shards where beside him, but this time the three remaining shards are on the island speaking and gesturing to eachother. One is Waldorf and the others are still flame. Tasha stands and watches them with a wry smile.

Neither Iuz nor the shards are focused on Arienh anymore. We have managed to wreck their plans, but now all is in chaos and no one knows what will happen next. All we know is that it will all happen at once.

Mornie wakes up MK and they swap info. In the least straightforward way possible. Apparently MK forgot to say a lot of things to Kellen. This conversation is a mess, I’m not writing it all down.

A paige comes to get them. They go to the king. He says, “We have a decision to make.” Either they call off the attack or they force the crossing without you (IT crew). They are going to try to fool the army of demons and perinlanders and he needed the five of us to sneak into the fort and murder everyone as loudly as possible. This is a diversion so the army can cross somewhere else. Sources have confirmed that there is an army of demons on the move. Iuz is reconstituting his demon army that Bro Seb banished. They need to relieve Divers so they go with or without the IT crew. Darvin will be leading the expeditionary force. Mornie’s infiltration team she’s been training are leaving today to prep the crossing. They need us on the 22nd.

Mornie says they’ve been contacted by the team and there is other stuff going on.

Retcon: Kellen dreams to Airell to catch him up after she dreams at MK on the 18th. He talisman’s to Kellen in Saltmarsh on the 19th.

Back to the king, Mornie, and MK. Arn gives MK doe eyes and says, “Aren’t you coming with us on the crossing?”

Mornie tells the king we can let him know by the end of the day what we will do, but we know what he’s up against and want to do the best we can.

Darvin pulls Mornie aside and says the king is making a mistake. He’s taking the falling star out of the fight to do this feint. The falling star was told to go with the thousand doing the fake crossing to bring them back to the rest of the army. But this takes the falling star out of the main fight. They should return to the main force to keep them from being encircled, but that would be ordering the thousand to their deaths. It’s still the correct choice. Darvin intends to break his oath to the king and return to the main force after the feint. His request to all of us was that we come with them, do the feint, and then board the Falling Star, get it to safety, and get it back into the main fight. Darvin will lead the thousand and make them count as 10 thousand. None will be coming back if they do that.

Mornie asks what else he needs? He says us. Save the Falling Star and save the world.

Sorrel says, “We know what you have to do, we’ll make it work.” She really wants to believe it.

Airell sending stones to Hacrar and says “Will deal with Baron, send runners out to look for scrolls that would help us. Pick up Mornie’s gun. May stop by later today.”

Reply “Oh hey! You vanished this morning. Yeah i can send runners. You know there's not many left over because of the war. I can get mornie’s gun…”

19th - Mornie sending stones to Arienh “Will be by a tree at our midday. Significant problems here. Army needs to march now but needs our help. Talk soon.”

Arienh scrys on her and the tree, then tree ports there with Kellen, Airell, and Keledeck. We may have forgotten to mention Keledeck was coming.

Mornie casts contact other planes through the ring. A shadow forms with sharp edges, a wheel rolling in front of the sun. The sky is full of interlocking gears and cogs. She’s in an alleyway with impossibly tall buildings and sky bridges. A form is crouched in a nook roasting something over a campfire. She turns and it’s an emaciated Mornie, a street urchin gone wild. She says Mornie has parts of hers. She wants them back, the memories in her head that were hers. She wants a trade for answers to the questions. Mornie is in Mecadus, she’s the ghost that was in Mornie’s body, she works for Olidimara doing his bidding here. Mornie agrees and the girl sticks her fingers into Mornie’s eyes. She roots around and takes the memories. Mornie can see, but she has no more memories of her life in Gradsul or Airell as squirt.

Which is the best path? Define best. Which will save the world? Both. One is stopping Iuz, one is stopping the Shards. It’s not an accident that both are happening at the same time.
How many days do we have until the Shards complete the obelisk. Zero days, but the Shards don’t know that. Tasha will tell them it’s done on the 25th.
If we go to the shards, is there anything we can do to help the king? Your king is a noble fool, but his plan will work. The follower who is agonizing over his oath is going to make the right sacrifice. The people you love will have hard deaths if you are not there, but the overall plan will succeed.
How long after the 25th will the shards head to greyhawk if we don’t stop them? There are many possible outcomes. When Tasha completes the obelisk (or tells them) there will only be one of them with three shards and he will depart immediately. Which of the shards will win? Impossible to say.
The shards in the godtrap: how secure are they and if they are not secure, how will they get broken out? Be it by the three shards in one or the four shards of Iuz, whoever descends on Greyhawk will crack the godtrap like an egg and fuse the shards to themselves.

We discuss. We tell the king he’s on his own. He asks us to leave tonight when the other infiltrators leave so that the army might think we are on our own secret mission and not lose heart.

We talk to Sorel and Darvin. They understand, but it’s hard.

Mornie takes Arienh to meet her team and tells her that some of the team have become druids. Mornie has built a stealthy strike team.

MK talks to her brother and uncle. They are not pleased that we aren’t going with them.

Arienh scrys on Bro Seb. They are under siege. On the lake the siege is maintained by a contingency of boat folk who declared loyalty to Iuz. Bro Seb’s people are exhausted and worn out.

A quick trip to Greyhawk happens for shopping and to pick up Mornie’s gun.

We finish our long rest and then wind walk to the island. The first day we rest on the mainland and the second day we head across the lake more stealthily.  We arrive around a few hours before dark. We see a massive fleet of the boat people. We are headed towards a natural harbor on the east side. The town is occupied and there are a series of camps around the fort. Massive shapes fly around. It’s a massive army. The fliers are of two types. Nightmares that explode with fiery hooves and manes with some kind of humanoids on their backs. The others are horse like shapes, but they move like flies. They are chasme demons. There are enough ships to transport 50+ thousand soldiers. The army is probably around 90 to 100 thousand strong. The camps are definitely split into a number of groups, some ethnically, some by race, some intermixed. There is a large camp of demons. They don’t intermix with the other camps. How have they all been here for so long without starving? This is a barely held together collection of armies. We can’t land here and will have to sneak through this camp to get to the fortress.

We land a ways away. Skill challenge to get into the fortress. 9 successes before 3 failures.

Mornie - Performance, Success
Arienh - Insight, Success
MK - Athletics, Success
Airell - Slight of hand, Success
Kellen -  Persuasion, Success
Airell - Deception, Success
MK - Stealth, Fail
Mornie -  Persuasion, Success
Arienh - Survival, Success
Kellen - Religion, Success

We make it to the castle without being stopped, but we are trailing a stream of chaos. The clock is ticking before the castle is alerted that something is going on.

Inspiration: Mornie

Airell downtime
WARNING: some of my comments will make no sense to you but this shit is funny af to me. Please disregard it along with my horrible spelling, lack of capitalization and proper  basic grammar
Jono quest:
end of flocktime 23rd
Airell will travel to kilmurhak via wind walking
Hakrar found airell a guide that knows the area (ig?)
Coming into the tavern via the kitchen?
Guide is an orc (correction, half orc) dude named drask
This dude (?) is oridian (no idea what that means but its important ig?)
Mashed between two different human cultures
From the mountains?
Wood elves in bramblewood are feral (like princess lol)
Traveling 900 miles as clouds (why are we obsessed with clouds?)
Time limits ooooo (two hours of wiggle room)
airell should ditch drask lol, but hakrar gives him a teleportation circle spell (sad)
Drask is boring; nvm he wants to murder hobo nice :D
Hakrar just gave out 50 $1000 billion, DANG BRO
Drask was not accounted for yay
No trees that are good enough for arien in northern ket ig
Arien tree portaled to beory’s teeth (why the hell is it called that?)
Spindly towers (leaning tower of piza core) and not as many guards
Licking fingers ig, you’re weird drask
Time zones fuck with drask a little (literally a second)
Teaching hand signs (omg gang affiliation!!)
Following landmarks; rivers & mountains & shit
Ending up in a fortified town called Vigilance, in Bissal
Bissal is a crossroads place, independent because they don’t want others to have it (conquering core lol)
Adventurer’s haven (lots of quests)
No guards taking registry but they just make sure you don’t do dumb shit
Half orcs are not common but its really about the clothes (not liking drask)
Tavern person is sus; nvm he just stupid
Gossip vibe of town; id love to see this place’s newspaper
Uneventful night in this town
Grayhawk is weird with its love for airell
Gotta go fast + bad check = them elsewhere yay
Drask is annoyed with his job (but he got paid real well tho)
Go through a split in a forest (idk man, its confusing)
Large lake with boats connecting the towns on the lake, nehez
Large army (larger than the keoland army with the battle with the giants) that controls the food rations
Ket army is at the southern border; not good not good not good
Drask has a past with this fort like place (attacked by dark dwarves here)
Camp away from fort place; camp is kinda exposed
Dark dwarves are not good scouts; not spotted
Lower complex is where slaves are, upper complex is where dark dwarves are
Dark dwarves heavily scout in the day too, migraine inducing in sunlight
Stealthy with invisibility, locate object to the items that he wants to steal back (plans that will go horribly wrong)
In the towers manufacturing is taking place, mining & smelting is in the lower bit
Dark dwarves work with the humans during the day (fucking miserable lol)
Evade three patrols of dark dwarves, 1st - big guys, 2nd - dark dwarves
Airell is understanding the flaws of dictatorship
Drask cannot stealth and its funny (frodo)
Airell is casting a spell and dropping invis
The halfling is chanting and it does not alert ANYONE
The cape is not in the towers
Not a very good place to defend for the dwarves? (i’m confused; i think my brain tapped out)
Airell cannot find the dwarvish sword thingie
Slaves mostly consist of humans (orideans)
Elemental causing chaos? Solid plan?!
Dimension door inside wall to see three towers that he can hit with whatever he has planned
Surprise round to cast earthquake from a spell scroll (wtf is going on?)
The entire western section of a tower is gone and two whole towers are gone (9/11 style)
Dimension door out b/c he a fucking idiot
Casting summon earth elemental AT EIGHT LEVEL!!!! WTF?!?!?!
Drask thinks that there was some shit that he was huffing in greyhawk to think airell was awesome
Earth elemental is creating chaos to start a slave uprising
“Drask, we are going to storm the castle” - Airell, then proceeds cast spider climb
The notetaker is officially scared of the sheer amount of spells that jono/airell possesses
Drask rages with +1 to ac with rainbow light
Drask throws airell (this shit is amazing)
The evil dwarves are in panic mode which is funny af
This place is just too big to defend
They need to go to the main tower to get airell’s stuff that he wants back
The evil dwarves are finally doing something useful (stopping the god and his sidekick)
Picked up airell and started sprinting (this is funny lol)
The stone guard is coming out (their elite soldiers)
Flame strike on the door that these elite soldiers were coming out of
These soldiers have magical powers (magical girl core)
He casts flame strike again
Drask has luscious hair
They grow larger (losing invis)
Everything that can be seen right through the front door
They are using a special forge, crucible forge (better steel?)
The glow isn’t red/orange but has a greenish tinge
Jono has a lot of monitors apparently
Airell casts wall of light (there’s a wall of light now?!)
Drask gets a crit
Drask gets another crit
Sponges of weird metal, variety of different colors
Stone shaping the doors shut
Sponges with steel, adamantine, and a white-iredesant metal
Each of these pieces of adamantine is basically 3-4 plate armors
These dwarves were trying to heat up these metals to use before being attacked
The dwarves on top are trying to plan on how to ambush them
Stone guard are by a trapdoor that leads down

MK + Mornie downtime
MK asked Kellen to use “dream” to her brother. Arienh casts “windwalk” on MK and Mornie. We flew over to Verbabonc. We rest, but keep going. Verbabonc sucks anyway. On to Devarnish.
We fly low to investigate the plunder and pillaging of some places that got sacked. There’s a puppet/theater scene with tortured people sitting around (dead) “watching” the “show.” There are no signs of the attacker. The perp was the star of the show. They built the stage and everything. MK notices there are no musicians… they’re in the massive wooden cauldron as the people stew. Those who watched the whole show got to “live,” so some spikes are bloody, but empty.
Each successive village has the same scene.
Mornie sees demonic blood splatters here and there. MK remembered that Arn told her that the demonic forces are controlled by the red minstrel.
We land at the army admin center to ask where to go. It’s a half-full camp. We reluctantly talk to the king’s herhold. He’s the records keeper, so we should tell him what we saw. The Falling Star, he tells us, landed a couple of days prior. Valuna’s clerics got the ship to fly again.
King’s forces wanted to go up North and cross the river, but they got spotted by drones and turned back.
The army is just north of Bride. Mornie recognizes some of the standards. We are taken to King Kimbruerthtos. Mornie tries to kneel, but the king pulls her up. We accompany the king back to wherever the heck we’re going.
Mornie proposes to train a stealth force to clear the shore. The king’s plan is to split the army and sacrifice 10% of it to cross the other 90%. That’s a lot.
Arn and his uncle ran to the king’s chambers. Arn is older, taller. MK is smaller. The hug is a bit more awkward, but welcome. MK tells the moon story to Arn and the king.
Mornie trains the elite unit. MK runs raids across the river - the intent is to clear the camps and make the bodies disappear, spreading rumor and chaos. Leave the camp intact, turn the soil over, demoralize those who find it.
The key phrase is “darkness walks” - the motto of the “blood ghosts,” as we are called by the enemy.

Kellen and Arienh downtime
MK and Mornie departed. Airell departed separately
Kellen did research, Arienh brewed a potion.

Kellen and MK treeport to Saltmarsh. It’s early summer, hot and humid. Some nice family (father and daughter) is pruning the tree they step out of.
Arienh and Kellen wait for Cosima to come over to check in with her.
The guy is awed by Arienh and is telling her how she saved his life by turning into t-Rex and killing Ma Garret. He turned his life for the better and all that. Vampires killed the rest of his family.
Arienh feels a bit guilty, but doesn’t show it.
Entire Seagrove shows up, Cosima and Mafera step forward. Cosima says: Iuz is coming? Arienh says - not here. Cosima sends everyone back home before giving report.
She did a lot of spy things, including research on Iuz. She deduced that Arienh is a descendant of the Betrayers. Trade from the hold of the sea princes have been disrupted. There’s unrest and sporadic slave uprising. Looks like Scarlet Brotherhood. She expect big slave uprising in the next year or so. The blind farther fled Gradsul last year in disgrace. Bishop Temut showed his corruption. In the Stythe city has turned around, not moving to Saltmarsh.
Scant has been conquered by the scarlet brotherhood. There’s some resistance. That’s the only free port over there. Trading north is pirates or the brotherhood. Neiri city - MK’s friends outed some SB there, so there’s civil war there now. Kro Turlep - Agatha is doing things there, Farther of Obedience is paranoid.
Arienh’s insight: Cosima still feels very guilty, that’s why she’s so focused on Scarlet Brotherhood.
Cosima asks if the rest of IT crew and falling star is coming back. Answer is no.
Kellen’s family moved to Kellenville. She says we should speak with FS crews’ families. It’s best that Arienh does it.
The city looks great. Finally rebuilt. Right in time for a new destruction.
Arienh says she will update Cosima on everything later.
There’s an initiation that is about to happen, she invites Arienh to join. Godsday.
Kellen turns K and A invisible and goes to her parent’s house.
Kellen looks bigger and better, there’s now a proper dock there.
Kellen’s parents recreated their home in Kellenville.
Kellen scares her mother with invisible hugs. Then Sarah comes over. Lots of conversations.
Bunch of gnomes surrounded Arienh, chattering and pointing at her. She turns into a bird and flies away. Gellen is waiting for her at the house. He wants to know everything. He’s upset that FS is not returning. He mentions that Keledek is back in town, been here for 6 months. He’s back in his tower. And working for Gellen. He asks to tell him before she leaves.
Insight on Gellen: he’s old and is trying to get more like Eda.

Kellen comes back to the house, does the pleasantries and goes to her workshop to finish the fins.

Kellen gets a delivery of coffee and invitation to coffee shop. She goes there and meets a robot. That’s her shield guardian - Shiela.
It’s very nice for Kellen to be back to gnomes and their cheerfulness.

Arienh and Kellen go to Keledek. He’s working on some maps. Looks like he’s tracking IT crew.
Arienh tells him about the time weirdness coming back from the moon and how they lost time. Keledek didn’t know about it.
M was killed by the shards, he created Keledek as a clone and now K wants to take them to him via a tuning fork or black iron. Arienh recognizes it as a fork to Hell. Keledek says M is in Avernus. He doesn’t have any more information.

Arienh doesn’t want to go now because she has ceremony that evening. And time and plane travel are weird.

Keledek casts Plane Shift. Avernus is very hot and dirty. They appear on a balcony of a tower on a small island surrounded by a lake of boiling blood. On top of the tower are two horns with red lightning jumping between them. Demons are jumping out of rivers, devils are waiting for them on the shores. Fighting everywhere. There’s a swamp of a demonic ichor with larger demons rising out of them.
Near the swamp is a metal structure that looks like beetle’s tongs and held there is a unicorn. Unicorn looks terrible.
M is waiting for them there. Shards killed the rest of his clones, and took all of his notes. He is stuck here now. Shards are building another standing in a place called Edmundfort (it’s north of Greyhawk). His and Reina’s plan was to make Ogdranal’s death to see like shards betraying Iuz, they would turn on each other and they would just fight each other. M, R and Tasha would ambush them at godtrap. That’s why Reina told Arienh to back off their plans with Fist of the Furnace.
MK was supposed to go down castle Greyhawk to rescue Xandros, and kill Ogdranal.
Tasha now switched sides probably.
Things working to their advantage:
Iuz and Shards are not cooperating
Shared and Tasha are together building standing stones. None of the shards are masters of the arcane. Best case - Tasha is misleading them and slowing them down. Worst case - she’s helping them and carrying out her MK backup plan - put all the shards into one person and make them new Iuz that Tasha is not beholden to.
Iuz is going to Greyhawk
The notes that they stole are incomplete and wrong. They don’t have Kellen’s corrections. It’s very likely Tasha is guessing. And she’s not very good at that.
Tasha will make a very bad standing stone.
M is channeling demons to the blood war so Iuz has less of it.

M offers a plan. He asks if Arienh can cast Plane Shift. He suggests sending notes to another plane. He has tuning fork to Celestia in his tower, but it’s very protected.
He gives them detailed maps of Edmundfort. He scried his way around there. There are different forces there.
He thinks dungeon is a trap.
Every time Arienh casts a spell The Shards see it. He thinks they will follow us to Saltmarsh where we can capture them with Kellen’s contraption.








Session 124 2/16/2025 - MS
26th of Patchwall - Waterday - still.

Arienh has set the challenge to be the high druid. Reyna has set the parameters that Kymneraph is to be grounded for 6 heartbeats (one round). (Saving throws for all magical effects are at disadvantage; spell attacks are at advantage).

Kymneraph starts off with casting Reverse Gravity. This is going to suck. Everyone shoots up 100 feet in the air, and Kymneraph starts flying away. The deer strikes out at Kymneraph. MK pushes off Kellen to attack the Bear and the Bear shoots out energy that hypnotizes Mordenkainen, but he shrugs it off. MK tries to hit, but the reverse gravity affects her attacks.

The deer (Hart of Morning Glory) streaks after Kymneraphand starts to attack, blinding him. Kymneraph whips his tail around, striking the deer.

Mornie ghosts and grabs Airell onto her back. She then turns to Kymneraph to try and convince him to listen to the IT Crew. Kymneraph does look over, but it doesn’t appear to fully convince him. Reyna then feeble minds Airell, which succeeds, even though Mornie tries to counterspell it using the ring.

The panther then goes invisible. Reyna’s crown glows and a shimmer goes around her and her followers. She then shape changes into a Balor, which has wings. Kymneraph tries to dispel Reyna’s spell, but it doesn’t work.

Arienh throws Vandil Belegdaur staff onto the ground to gain an Eladrin. The fire spirit then shoots fire at the deer.

Mordenkainen casts dimension door and teleports away from the battle. The bear claws at Arienh. She is grappled.

The Eladrin Casts greater restoration on Airell and feeblemind drops.

Kellen casts slow on the Night hunger (the panther) and the Bear.

Kymneraph dispels magic on Reyna and her Balrog Balor (you wanna get sued!) form drops. Furious, Kymneraph breathes out moonlight, which hits Arienh, Airell, Reyna, the bear, and the deer. Somehow Mornie evades it with Airell on her back. Arienh is down and the fire spirit disappears.

MK continues to try and hit the bear. Reyna tries to dispel the slow spell and fails. She then keeps trying to take out Kellen with a thorn whip. Kellen’s armor shoots back force damage, and snarling, Reyna uses her spirit totem to give her and her animals temporary health.

Mornie dimensions over to Kymneraph with Airell to try and convince him. Reyna is commanding the bear to attack Arienh, and Arienh is really trying to refuse to die. It’s a valiant effort. Kymneraph continues to attack Reyna - he’s a little pissed.

Airell shoots at the bear. Reyna then dispels the reverse gravity spell, which sends Arienh and the others down to the ground. Arienh is not moving or breathing. Kellen tries to talk to Kymneraph, but chooses the wrong words.

The panther slinks in and bites Kellen. The wounds are deep and Kellen is having a hard time staunching the bleeding. Kellen is clawed to unconsciousness. The Eladrin revivifies Arienh and attacks the bear. Airell healed Kellen and then tried to hit the deer.

Mordenkainen then enters into the fray by putting up a wall of force around the panther, who paces around the virtual cage.

Mornie flies up to Kymneraph and says, “Loyalty means everything to us. I hope our actions have proven that to you. We want what you want. Please help us win this against Reyna. Arienh understands the power of friendship which is something Reyna never will. We are proof of that. Please help us.”

Kymneraph sneers and shoots a spell at the bear, which incapacitates it. He then flies in to attack Reyna. She retaliates with trying to get him to polymorph, but it doesn’t work. Reyna then attacks Arienh and knocks her out again. The bear then stands up and Airell shoots him.

MK hit the bear. The Eladrin healed Arienh and killed the bear. Reyna, after getting hit by the dragon, continues to fire spells at him, to no effect.

Arienh tries to polymorph Reyna, it succeeds, but Reyna shrugs it off. (2 legendary resistances now have been used up.) Arienh moves away and heals herself some more.

Kellen stands up and then jumps to Reyna. She rips a gem off her armor, hits Reyna on her head and casts Inflict Wounds. Reyna is hit with black necrotic energy and is staggered by the blow.

Mornie continues to jabber at Kymneraph and is continuing to succeed. Reyna tries to take out Mornie, Kellen, and MK with Hold Person, and it doesn’t work. The deer tries to attack Kymneraph and fails miserably. Mordenkainen then casts another wall of force spell Mordenkainen’s Spatial Fortress and puts it over Kymneraph as a box.

To protect herself, Reyna casts an anti-life shell around herself, so nothing living can get within 10 feet of her.

Kymneraph, very pissed, emotes his frightening presence and the animals are frightened. The obelisk shoots off a pulse of energy and Reyna stumbles a bit, but holds her concentration on her spell.

Arienh calls out to the Pixie Queen for help and the pixies arrive. The panther then attacks Kellen, who dies from the attack. The pixies then polymorph the panther into a turtle. They then polymorph the hart, but it’s in the air and falls to the ground, and it poofs back. Four more pixies shoot off polymorph and turn it into a turtle.

MK shoots at Reyna multiple times and knocks her to the ground.

Airell casts Flame Strike from his shield on Reyna. The Eladrin casts cure wounds on Arienh and then shoots at Reyna.

Airell ports into the box and tells Kymneraph that he just doesn’t want Reyna to win and that he will port out soon. Kymneraph is so pissed that he hits Airell with his tail. Reyna dispels the polymorph on the panther. Reyna thorn whips Arienh, and drinks a healing potion. Kymneraph hits Airell again. The panther then attacks Arienh, and Arienh shrugs off two of the three attacks.

Mordenkainen then says, “Reyna, the challenge is finished. Arienh has succeeded.” Everyone freezes in disbelief.

Kymneraph spins around and growls, “Let. Me. Out.” Mordenkainen says that he will, only if Kymneraph agrees to stop. They argue for a bit.

Arienh brings Kellen back with the last of the diamond dust.

The panther then makes the move to pounce on Arienh, but Reyna stops it.

Reyna stops and realizes what she is getting out of all of this. There is now a High Druid, which hasn’t happened in 6 centuries.  Which means there’s someone to be challenged for the position.

Mordenkainen finally convinces Kymneraph and lets him go. Kymneraph lands in front of Kellen and he growls at her to go and fix the obelisk. Kellen says yes. Mornie helps Kellen and Mordenkainen. Arienh heals Kellen.

Mornie, Kellen, and Mordenkainen spend the rest of the day fixing the obelisk.

Reyna, after a loooooong time, kneels in front of Arienh, admitting that Arienh is the High Druid. Once she grinds it out through clenched teeth, she immediately stands up and leaves.

Once the obelisk is complete, Kymneraph is told that it is ready. Kymneraph tells Mordenkainen that the IT Crew can leave now, but…we cannot.

Mordenkainen sends us off the moon to Greyhawk. Well…things go strange and it feels like we are falling through blue light.

*******
Arienh finds herself in a glade with a single tree with lots of waterfalls nearby. Three of the big roots have been gnawed away by a dragon. Strangely there is no sun. Four figures surround her - Reyna, Anthala Quen, a Selouise woman (Yidehael Leltruem, Great Druid of Far Thillonri), and an Orc male (Dhovok of the Boroghul, Great Druid of the Bitter North). One of the great druids is not there (Aineiros).

There is a discussion about how Arienh bested Reyna through trickery. The Orc is very upset with all of this, stating that Reyna is filling spots with her acolytes. Anthala Quen makes the statement that Reyna, Anthala, and Arienh have all been able to finish the Timeless Rite….and not the other two. Yidehael says that there isn’t one old faith, but four.

Yidehael - to be strong is to be moral. The only rights you can have are the ones you tear from the world.
“There hasn’t been a singular Old Faith in six hundred years.  Even the High Druid before that tried to stamp out our way.  Our Old Faith teaches us that to be strong is to be moral.  Perseverance, self-reliance, these are our virtues.  We know that only rights we have are the ones we can tear free from this world.

Orc - Strength comes from the old gods.  The Old Faith is a power to be harnessed, nothing more.  Yidehael calls it blood magic.

Anthala - magic is a curse on the world

Reyna - cull the races that don’t belong

Reyna says that maybe they should listen to the new High Druid.

The four turn to Arienh expectantly.

Arienh turns to Anthala and says, “Magic isn’t the problem. It was when the world was new. It is no longer the thing that tears the world apart. There are many different ways to read the old faith and they don’t need to be intentional. If you wish to feed your peoples in different ways, that’s fine. I have no intention of interfering. Our job is to protect the world and keep it from being ripped apart. Protect the obelisks and protect it from Iuz. As long as that is your first goal, we can find a way to all work together. I have no intention of setting all the rules for everyone.”

Anthala Quen does roll his eyes at her mention of magic not being the problem.

Yidehael - “You talk of an old faith concerned with these obelisks. We have no knowledge of what they are. You are speaking in generalities of keeping the world safe and keeping our own ways. Generalities are how people are enslaved. So speak specifically, Southerner. What would you have the old faith do with these obelisks?”

“Have you felt the rip of the obelisks?” A map shows up under their feet with the obelisks showing up clearly as small embers.

Yidehael and Dhovok  study them. They have different reactions. Yidehael are drawn to the rift canyon. Dhovok ’s eyes are drawn toward the star in Ket. There is recognition there. What Arienh is saying resonates with them.

Yidehael says that she has had a vision of the burning ember bursting into fire.

“Iuz seeks to tear the world apart.”

Anthala says, “Not just Iuz. Magic is caused because of these terrors.”

Dhovok turns to her and says, “Is this your only concern?”

“The old faith is the world. We serve no gods. We serve our world, our reality, life as it is here. Our job is to protect. Our job is NOT what races live and die, and NOT what magic systems get to stay or not. The world finds its own equilibrium. It’s not our decision to change that.”

Yidehael says, “Nerul’s shadow speaks well. Presenting the Old Faith not as a singular mighty tree, but as a forest. Where each tree can grow its own way, but the roots are together. I agree with her wisdom.”

Anthala jumps in, “Agreed. I take it one step further. The old faith was once one faith and nine regions. If the old faith can evolve, no need to cling to it. That means it can evolve as well. Arienh Stormcaller says we need to protect the obelisks. Druids should protect those in certain areas.” The others are assigned by Anthala.

Arienh sees that Anthala is trying to get her to elevate him to the Great Druid of Alyssa. This is because there wasn’t a High Druid to do it before. He’s trying to claim legitimacy.

Arienh responds, “Land still needs its druids over it. Tying everyone to only an obelisk seems irresponsible. There aren’t enough of us to do this job. In the long term, raising up more will be a priority. There are many areas that have no great druids, and I don’t want to leave those lands unprotected. The answer is not giving everyone here more space of their own, but to add to our ranks. In the short term, we have obelisks to protect and someone who wants to destroy them.”

Dhovok  says, “The obelisk of Ket is far from us, separated by barren land and mountains. Ket is hostile to my people and anyone who does not believe in their faith. Plus, there’s the spawn of Graz’t. There’s only a matter of time before he turns north. If we are to defend the obelisk in Ket, I would need to know that the spawn of Graz’t would not descend on my people. What do you intend to do about it?”

Arienh, “I would like him to be destroyed. My friends and I are on the path to do that. That’s where my short term focus will be. I do not have armies to command, but I have many friends, and so destroying him is the next goal.”

Dhovok  says, “I do not like the trickery by which you claim your title. If you dispose of Iuz, I will recognize you as High Druid. And I will guard your obelisks. What say you?”

“I would say, that is my intention anyways, and if I fail, my seat is empty and you can have at it.”

Yidehael, “Well, since a challenge is on the table, what you ask of us is difficult but not as challenging of what you ask of the bitter north. There are materialist reasons why this may work for all our advantage. My people have invaded south. My people say they will leave when a ransom is paid. We share a common faith and a crusade to the rift valley might unit them. Unfortunately that land belongs to the Baron Rel Hjalnar.”

“If Iuz is destroyed, he very likely will be as well.” Arienh notices that all of them have no clue about the shards of Iuz. They think she is insane.

“I know what my plan is, my job is, for the near future. All I ask is if you have help that you can give, I would appreciate it. I understand that this is a bit of a new order of things. We all have things to figure out as to the details of what it is like to have a High Druid again. In the meantime, I ask that you give me a chance and help how you can.”

Anthala - “I understand any of your reticence, but I too, was denied a chance to challenge Arienh Stormcaller. I would have tasked her to cripple our domain to the way it was before, but she has already done this. There is a civil war happening. I’ve seen everything I need to. I accept Arienh Stormcaller as High Druid of the Old Faith.” He drops to his knee and glares at Reyna. Reyna says, “I’ve already accepted Arienh as High Druid.”

Dhovok and Yidehael say, “We accept you. We will offer aid once you’ve proven yourself.” They bow their heads. “Do this, and we accept you as High Druid.” Arienh nods.

Reyna stands and intones what has happened and says the Druid Conclave has ended.

*******

We finally stop moving through the blue light. Runes flash and a dome slams over us. Ariell yells, “It’s okay. I’ve returned. The IT Crew has returned.”

Eight stone statues break free from the walls and prepare to attack. A full dozen mages run in and then see who it is.

The mages are stunned and Mornie realizes that time is different on the moon. Airell tells the head mage, “We’ve had a long couple of days.”

We find out it has been seven months. It’s Flocktime 15th. It’s the vernal equinox.

Airell says, “It seems we have been gone longer than we have been gone.” We pick up that it has been a hard winter.

Kieran Jaluckian frees us from the wall of force. We pick up on a lot of what has happened.

Nyr Dev has fallen. The shield lands have fallen.

Mornie calls Sohrel, “We have been on the moon preventing the destruction of the world. We need a quick summary on what has been happening. Please help.”

Sohrel responds, “Where the fuck have you been. We’re in Veluna. We’ve been marching with the king since the start of the year. Where are you? (hear rustling and talking to someone else) Shit, you’re not gonna….”

The king of Keoland has brought in an army to help Valuna but is trapped there by Iggy’s army.

Downtime - long rest (level 20!!)  then 4 weeks downtime (starts in greyhawk).

Inspiration: Airell
Session 123 2/9/2025 - LA
Probaby 26th of patchwall. But time on the moon is hard.

Fight!
First one attacks Kellen. Second one attacks Mornie. Mornie shoots the one that attacked Kellen.
Another attack on Kellen and a mind shot on MK.
Arienh casts confusion. It works on 2 creatures.
MK kills one of them.
Kellen runs up and eldritch blast the non confused one.
Mind flayer shoots some crap and stuns bunch of people.
Airell casts shadow blade and attacks the mindflayer.

Mornie realized that dragon is probably not allowed to fly to the obelisk.
Mornie does cool shooty steady aim thing to hit the one next to Airell. She gets it right down through the eye ball and it scatters to pieces. And some afterblow to the other one.
MK remains stunned.
Airell gets a migraine. Thing runs by and Airell gets a nice opportunity attack bisecting this brain on legs.
Arienh shakes off the stun.
Kellen shakes it off too.
Arienh throws some fire around, but doesn’t hit anyone.
MK is drooling. Not smart enough.
Mornie does another cool shot and kills another one. Right through an ear hole.
Fighting is paused for a bit, but MK is still stunned.
Everyone starts running.
Kellen puts on flying armor.
Dragon is in pursuit. It spews yucky goo on everyone. Goo is full of tadpoles. Arienh and Airell pick up some passengers.
MK is still stunned in the hole.

We reached the boundary.
Kellen starts asking weirdly. She freezes, then flies back and freezes there.
Airell digs all of the tadpoles out. Airell casts lesser restoration on Ariehn.
Kellen flies back, Mornie takes the hole from her and runs for the buildings a quarter of mile away.
Kellen continues to act erratically and freezes for 30 seconds.
Arienh casts greater restoration on Kellen.

Mornie. Takes some time to find flat enough space for the hole. MK is not stunned in there anymore. Mornie spots something in the distance. Aquamarine dragon form as Kenmerith takes flights. Coming in our direction with urgent intent. We go toward him as well.
Mornie has the hole.
Mornie has Kellen’s talisman.

Plan is to try to convince Kenmerith that M’s plan is flawed and we want to help him get his sister back.

Mornie starts to talk to Kenmerith through the sword. K pulls up and wheels around. Starts to come closer, but not in an attack position. He pulls closer and stalls.
K: Why are you here?
M: We’re here to help you fix it. We know there’s an error,and we know how to fix it. I’ve never lied to you, I’m here to help. We want the world to survive, and that’s not going to be the case with what’s on that obelisk right now.

K lands 30-40 feet from her. His lightning drops down to a glow.

M calls Kellen to show him. She tells him that Kellen is very trustworthy and competent.

K seems to relax. Kellen shows him her paper with the runes and gives a lecture on it.
Kellen hears a voice in her head K is easier to talk to right now being separated from Reina. Showing my notes would be helpful, if you’re here to help. Kellen says yes, come over.

K asks why we did what we did if we want to help.
Kellen and Mornie try to persuade him that they always wanted to talk to him, and talking to M and Reina didn’t work.

K looks to Arienh. When Reina told you to stay away from the Fist of the Furnace why didn’t you? This is why all of this is happening.
Arienh: Reina is missing information, and she’s not my boss and I’m trying to save the world the best way I know how. There’s a bigger problem here than Reina’s problems. My problem is with Reina, not with you.

Airell: M would’ve been wrong anyway.

K: too many fools have played with those obelisks. (Airell side eyes Kellen). That’s why I plan to safeguard this one once it’s done.

Arienh: are you planning to safeguard it from your allies too?

K: I am the one using it’s power, not them. Even I need to be careful with it. It took a long time, and would’ve been longer if it wasn’t for M’s assistance.

Mornie: I see you recognize talent.

K: Looks back to Arienh. Is it your charge to safeguard the obelisks?

Arienh: All of them. They are under attack, and I intend to stop it. Reina has other plans.

He crackles at the mention of Reina.

K: Perhaps there’s a way for us to be …partners… Turn into your cloud forms and follow behind me.

Arienh: What guarantee do we have that we will not be attacked?

K: I am Kenmerith, Gaze of Suspicion, I am your guarantee.

We all mist. Following K carefully.

Ruined dome structure is on a raised platform. Like a step layered cake. To the east is the standing stones and M’s work station. K landed on the west side one step down. Looks like his helipad. He comes in hot, slamming down.
Kellen has 20 min on her armor left.

M has his arms folded. R has the same calmness that she always has.

R steps forward and talks with cold in her voice: Why are they allowed to live?
K (rears up, wings spread): They have brought M’s notes so that the standing stones can be properly constructed. Both of you claimed they wanted to stop us, and both of you were wrong.

M: to be fair, they interfered with our plans twice now. One with the fist of the furnace and once at the godtrap.

K: enough! They have your notes and are willing to share them. That one (gestures with claws at Kellen) seems to have a fix to the problem. You will review it and if they speak truth we don’t have a quarrel with them.

R (still calmly): Unacceptable. They are a band of skilled liars. Better to be safe. Take the notes from their bodies. Arienh must die. And the others too, so they don’t resurrect her.

K (clawing in frustration, but lets her speak): That’s your responsibilities. I will not risk the notes in battle. Too many resources have been already expended.

R: We had a deal

K: your part of the arrangement has been fulfilled

R (keeps going right over him): Mypart of this deal, Fist was one of them, but Arienh is a bigger threat. Removing her is part of the deal.

K: I will flay the skin of your bones before I accept altering our arrangement.

(IT crew fully materialized at this point)

R (reasserts her calm): Without me, you do not get your sister back. There’s no one else who can cast the spell. She looks at Arienh and asks if she has that spell in her back pocket.

Arienh says that it will take a while to fix the stones, so she can prepare the spell.

R threatens Arienh. As powerful as you all are, you couldn’t take me on your best day. And today is not your best day.

Kellen pipes in that now they have K on their side.

R looks at Arienh: Let’s walk this through. The best case scenario for today - you all die here. Because if by chance you try to take me out I have contingencies . If I don’t return, Saltmarsh ceases to exist.

Mornie: we’re not here to upset the balance of nature.

R: hand over the ntoes

Mornie: that’s up to K to decide

K: will you handover the notes? Your affairs don’t concern me.

M makes eye contact with Kellen.

Mornie says that we just want to help.

Airell looks at K and asks if they can make a deal?
Mornie whispers to Airell - K is trying to figure out which side he’s going to stick with.

Airell: Will you give us your assurance of protection if we give M the notes?

R cuts K off: You offer them protection and our deal is off. There’s no one else who can cast the spell.

Airell keeps looking at K.

Arienh says - Are you just angry because I wouldn’t do what you said? This seems really stupid, we all want to save the world.

R looks disappointed at Arienh. I really did want you to succeed me. But you don’t have the right vision. You’re a threat. If you follow the Old Faith you obey me. If you’re not - your life is forfeight.

Arienh takes out the staff she had and casts THE SPELL. (Claiming to be the Greatest Druid of all druids).   Reina is looking at the staff and her eyes go wide.

M and K recognize the staff too.

There’s a burst of sunlight on the moon. Yellow, beams taking the form of different animals. They arc and fly towards the earth. One lands on R’s ear and is talking to her.

M has a look of “nice play”.

R was expecting a different spell. First real emotion of embarrassed rage at being played.

Arienh: You said you wanted me to succeed you. I picked a different way to do it. What’s the problem?

R: the others will never accept this.

Arienh: Let them come!

R says: alright, I get to name the terms of the challenge.

K is withdrawing. He doesn’t want any part of this.

All of my allies vs all of yours - first one who can hold K to the ground for 6 sec.
K rears - I’m not your plaything!

R says: Go!

Fire spirit is there too. Kellen has 10 min left on her armor.

Mornie and Kellen wants to persuade K. Maybe use the notes to make him come down to the ground.
Airell suggested taking out R’s allies.
MK suggests waiting for the other team to grab him and lifting him up.

Last time we were next to the obelisk magical attacks had advantage, and everyone had disadvantage on saving throws against magic.

Inspiration: Mornie and Arienh.


Session 122 1/25/2025 - ML
Several hours after sunset, we are in the moon projection of Celene. Bad dwarves are attacking, arienh doesn’t want us to fight. Kellen has cast charm monster on the two remaining dwarves. She yells, “We’re all friends here!”

Mornie gets the dwarf to make the spider stop attacking MK. Leader dwarf asks why we are trespassing on their lands. Kellen says the people on the moon killed our friend, we want the friend back and we want revenge. She needs Airell to translate though and the dwarf isn’t charmed by Airell. But Airell says we are hunting those three (the ones on the moon) because they stole from us and something. Dwarf wants to know if we are against kymnereth and the enslavers. Airell says we are not allies of any of them (moon people) or the power beneath (obelisk). He asks how we get to the caverns. They could maybe take us there, but it would be expensive. Not in terms of money, but we would owe them big.

We agree to let them go and they will talk to their leader and come back at the next dark.

The projection is of what happened during the day.

Airell thinks they will want his shield as the type of payment but we should say that if we get kymnereth off the moon that should be enough for them.

Kellen is looking at the runes trying to find the best/fastest way to fix them/make them not explode. Mornie is mapping the city. Arienh is following the patrols of Reyna trying to find a pattern.

As Kellen and Arienh are watching, we see Mordenkainen scry on us. Then he calls a conference with the other two. Reyna is furious, Mordy is wryly amused that we are still after them. Arienh is reading lips and sees that they expect us to come through the tree since we have no other way to the moon but they are asking “The Colony” to form the perimeter just in case. Reyna says Arienh must die.

We discuss. If they complete the ritual correctly we actually don’t care. It doesn’t help Iuz. We just don’t want them to screw up and break another obelisk. We decide Kellen should dream to Reyna to explain Mordy’s screw up and offer to have Mordy scry on MK while MK looks at Kellen’s notes so Mordy can see for himself.

Reyna isn’t convinced by Kellen’s argument, she just says if Kellen wants to help she needs to stay away from Arienh because what’s coming for Arienh will come for her too. This is personal now. Kellen ends the dream.

MK should still hang out by the notes so if Mordy scrys again he will still see them.

Airell decided to Send to Mordenkainen saying to look at the notes.

He replies i don’t screw up blah blah runs out of words.

Airell replies: Pi doesn’t equal 3, you idiot, you can’t even count to 25. Bigby was better.

Mordy not impressed.

First watch,Airell and Arienh, hear large shapes trying to be stealthy in the distance.Second watch, MK and Mornie. Same.

Next day, the illusion fades out with the sun. Mornie has uploaded chiseling tools to her matrix to prep for later. Kellen says Mordenkeinin is more than a day away from finishing. She can figure out  fix in a day she thinks.

Mornie scouts the area. Airell forges papers for a requisition from Duke Feldron for 2 dozen war horses to be sent to Burl.

At sunset the projection returns, Mordy is still working. At some point he scrys on MK and sees the note with Kellen’s rune adjustment. He does keep looking back at the rune after that. The seed has been planted…

We see the dwarves before they get close. Kellen casts comprehend languages on herself. There are 30 to 40 of them, mostly on foot. 6 spiders and riders. 6 constructs with a duregar strapped in. The leader in front has machine legs and an oversized gauntlet arm. He approaches and asks, “Which of you wishes to speak with the tyrant of Kilmerhawk?”

Airell says he will speak for our party.

They will trade passage for some of the magic items we carry. Airell says we will trade for control of the passage. They won’t negotiate until we show all the magic items we have. They start ritual casting identify which takes about 3 hours. In the mean time, we ask about how to breathe (minor magic items), how long it will take to get to the gate (moments).

Airell’s owl says kymnereth in the projection was speaking to some mind flayers. Later Mordy scrys again on Kellen and her project. He does more comparing with his work.

Kellen tries to make friends with a tinkerer.

We all see that when Airell hands over the dwarven cutlass they all have a mini excitement attack. Not a poker playing culture. The tyrant seems to notice that Kellen can understand them.

Finally they bring us a list. They want Kellen’s tiara, Arienh’s dragon vessel, and MK’s Axe.  Airell negotiates to the tiara, the dwarven cutlass, and one of the cloaks of the montebank. He also trades the broom of flying for the air bubble stones. They will last for 24 hours and then reset after 7 days.

A dwarf sends us to the moon! Look, the (insert other name for earth here) is in the sky! Kellen is doing low gravity jumping with her boots. We don’t see the obelisk anywhere, the land is flat. Mornie tests out being a cloud inside the air bubble. Seems to work. Kellen sends up her arcane eye and Arienh communes with nature. No tunnels or cities, but there is a vibe kind of like the dreadwood or feywild but also icky like the chained oblivion. This is a dead world. The eye sees nothing for a good 35 miles. Kellen taps into the old connection with the chained oblivion and finds out we are about 90 miles in the direction that was said away from the obelisk. We mist in that direction.

At some point we see a dragon flying above. We try to hide in the rock crevasses. This dragon is not Kymnereth. It is sickly pale blue. It looks dead. On its back is a twitching, wrything mass with tentacles, digging the tentacles into the dragon, causing it to move. It is searching, but doesnt seem to see us. We reform. If we continue as cloud it will see us.

We do a skill challenge to sneak in. 7 successes before 3 failures.

Mornie - investigation to find a path. She sees a hunting party in the distance, a mindflayer leader and a quadruped hound like creature. The third form is a hunched quad form with a giant eyeball for a head. 1 success.

Kellen - arcane eye out to spy. 1 Fail.

MK - Acrobatics to help people over rocks. 2 successes.

Arienh - Survival to find a good path. 3 successes.

Airell - cast pass without trace to give everyone advantage.

Mornie - acrobatics to parkour. 4 successes.

Arienh - Perception. 5 successes.

Airell - stealth. 6 successes.

MK - deception. 2 failures.

Kellen - investigate. 7 successes.
Session 121 1-19-2025 - MS
Predawn hours, Moonday, Patchwall 24th. There’s a full change of scents from water and woodlands to earthy scents and hay, Arienh (in wolf form) drops down on the ground in exhaustion. She doesn’t move. Mornie stares up at the stars and is able to put together that they are on the west side of the Crystalmists and Barrier Peaks. We are definitely in the Baklunish West. There is some discussion over the prophecy from Zagig, and now we’re trying to figure out the second part - 7th scar of the world. Arienh shifts back and gives directions to the city and the next obelisk in Ket. We decide to travel for a bit towards Lapolla. There are tribes in this area that are showing signs that they have seen us and are alerting each other to our presence. The terrain is changing to be more desirable - water, vegetation, etc. As we march closer to Lapolla, we realize that the obelisk is up to 150 miles away. Arienh says that we need to cast Windwalk. We decide to rest and regain our health/energy before windwalking at night.

We wake up and Arienh tells us she had a dream. She says we need to rethink what we are trying to do. Our goal should be to stop the ritual and not kill anyone. She brings up that none of us know where Igwiliv is (Tasha). Plan A is to take care of the body and blood of the Fist. Plan B is to get rid of the standing stones. In her dream, Ferrin was trying to tell her about the druids, but she isn’t sure what he meant. She decides to take some drugs and divine what the right answer is - dream to Ferrin now or later? The omen confirms that she needs to talk to Ferrin. Mornie drops the spells in the ring and Airell starts ritual casting Contact other Plane.

Arienh contacts Ferrin and when she comes out of it, she tells us we have to go, and go now. Arienh looks good, but is processing some things. Kellen put counterspell in the ring for Arienh. Mornie asked about the dragon and Reyna - we should keep going on with the plan to stop the ritual and not try to beat them. Ferrin said that Tasha is an opponent, but not an enemy. She’s currently with Iuz as he isn’t happy with her and he called her back. We head due East using windwalk.

We come upon a dwarven city - maybe it’s the doomed city of Kilmurhak? Arienh senses the wrongness of the Chained Oblivion a little ways away from the city, but also senses the wrongness in the dwarven city. Uh oh….bad dwarves. Arienh’s research was that this obelisk was underground.

We go to check out the dwarven city and it is situated in a way that is strange to us - set up as a U. There are slaves/low-paid workers that are being organized by dwarves who have white hair and white eyes. They have a close resemblance to the grey elves. There are large spiders who have riders. The slaves are predominantly human (Oridians) and gnomes. The dwarves are Duergar- they actively hate regular dwarves. It is a different culture. Airell tells us that Duergar once were sane, but dug so deep that they lost contact with the other dwarves and changed. The Duergar lost all love for anything other than wealth and production. There is no creativity or arts shown in their city. They have the power to read minds/control minds, and not been seen by others. They can move machines with their minds. They hate being in open sunlight, so it’s very unusual that they are up here.They worship a god who delivered them from captivity and taught them the virtues of always wanting more, never giving anything unless they have to, and always seeking revenge.

We decide to scout ahead, stopping every couple of miles, to check out the obelisk area. We see a strange depression in the ground with 7-8 unnaturally flat ovals of rock. Kellen investigates and gets the feeling of a non-localized illusion. Rock is rock. Duh. We went further and Arienh did another check and discovered that the wrongness is below the weird depression. There is no entrance in this area. Crap, we are going to have to go back to the city.

Arienh told us that we should not start a fight. That piece is very important from her conversation with Ferrin. We are not to start it.

Airell contacts the other plane to get some more clarification on what to do. Skerrin is there waiting for him.
Is there an entrance to the cavern below us within 2 miles of where we are currently? No
Where is the nearest way on the surface to get into the cavern of the obelisk? 8 miles in the dwarven city
Where is the next closest entrance to the cavern of the obelisk? Where we just teleported away from.
How long until the ritual by Mordenkainen is finished? 2 days
Are the dwarves guarding the cavern? No

Night time, rocks turn blue in the moonlight. They look like water frozen in a churn, or rocks liquified. They are covered in ruins made of the moon blue marble, remains of a huge palace complex. Kellen and Mornie have seen something similar when they went on the unicorn quest to the elves of Celene. The architecture is almost identical. These are the important buildings of a city. To the right of us is a massive dead tree, faded as though of petrified wood. Nearer to us is a caved in dome. A form inside is clearly Kymneraph with the body of the fist. Outside the dome is Mordenkainin chiseling at the stone.

Four figures come around the dome, one humanoid, the other three animals - a cat, a stag, and a bear. It’s a projection. Arienh wants to check out the tree.

We debate on misting over, and go invisible first. The tree is mammoth!!! It’s a Celene tree. 150 feet in the sky, at least. The tree is not alive, but fully petrified.

On the moon, there are different footprints everywhere. There was a battle there at some point. A sealed cave is there with a plug. A lot of footprints go there. Mordenkainen is working on a black stone and is mostly done covering it in runes. The broken dome where Kymneraph is has the black obelisk in front of it. He is chanting and drawing shapes in the air. He’s doing something to himself.

Kellen investigates the runes that Mordenkainen is chiseling, and sees that he’s putting the wrong ones in. These ones will destroy the moon. She knows that there is a way to turn the runes into benign runes.

Kymneraph has been working on making adjustments to himself for a long time. It’s strange…the body of the sister of Kymneraph doesn’t appear to be there.  Giving you a strong hint as what role a powerful spellcaster like Reyna would play in bringing back Kymneraph’s dead sister.

Arienh tosses some dirt in Reyna’s direction, but Reyna doesn’t react. So, the projection is only one way. Each of them has a small clear diamond shaped gemstone pressed against the back of their necks. There is a bubble around them. Reyna’s beasts do not have them. The Fist of the Furnace’s body has not rotted.

We see something observing us from within the projection. Airell says, “Did you see that?” and then he poofed away. Mornie and MK move toward it. Whatever it was disappeared. A spider then reappears and tries to bite Airell, but he moves out of the way. The Duergar fires a crossbow. Another Duergar shoots Arienh from a different direction. MK tackles the spider and pins the Duergar when Mornie disarms him. Kellen tries to charm the Duergar . She successfully charmed two of them and it lasts for 8 hours. Another Duergar appears and he flees.

Inspiration: Arienh


Session 120 1/1/2025 - LA
30 min past sunset Patchwall 22nd.
Prisoner is knocked out. Arienh communes with nature. No buildings, she feels that about 1 mile north there’s a change in plants, lack of apex predators, no peoples anywhere. She can’t sense individual people, and there are no big groups.
Mornie says we should move somewhere else.
Arienh is trying to wake him up and is failing. Mornie tries next with Kellen signing obnoxiously to help. MK clocked him really good, and it takes a while for him to wake up.
The mage told the elves we’re coming. The valley is closed to us. The mage sends this only warning. Leave now or be destroyed.
Mornie asks how long he’s known the mage. He says he was not instructed to answer that.
Airell asks if they are servants of the mage. Elf just stares.
Mornie invokes the name of Kanmerith and that we know he’s a dragon. She asks why they serve him. Elf doesn’t answer.
Mornie says she’s done with him and walks away. MK perks up and asks if she can kill him now.
Airell wandered off during the interrogation to make sure no one is coming around. He casts Charm Person, it doesn’t work. He still asks where we can find the mage to settle our differences. The elf glares with disgust and says he will say no more.
Mornie knocks him out again. She wants to give him a fake plan when he wakes up.
We tie the guy up to a tree and owl away. Follow the river. The forest breaks into a grassland.
After an hour we land. It’s eerily quiet. It’s not normal.
Kellen and Airell take the first watch - nothing happens, but it feels like we are being watched. Arienh is next, and then Mornie and MK. Same thing.
Short rest happens, but everyone is on edge.
No structures are visible. The grass is weirdly uniform. The soil looks very fertile, but no agriculture. Kinda looks like some animals are herding here.
Arienh does a divination ritual to ask which way to go to the mage. North-north-west. There are lakes as milestones.
Somebody is trailing us. We see shapes behind us. It also feels like some birds are following. MK harvests some berries and flowers around the river. At some point the grass looks recently grazed. Within the last week.
Compass is acting weird here, at some points it feels like the sun stops moving in the sky. Ariehn feels that this whole place feels manufactured, not real. The types of nature if very constrained.
We come across an area of pale blue stone with blue crystals in it. Very sharp shadows in it. It’s a bit off the road. Arienh leaves a mark on the “trail” to know where to come back to.
It’s about a mile in range, the light is weird here. Kellen doesn’t detect any active magic, there’s only faint ambient magic.
Kellen sends a mage hand to chip a piece of the stone. It’s a quartz-like stone. Looks like a regular shiny rock. Kellen licks it and it feels like there’s a bit of a charge there and it’s chalky. She’s okay.
Kellen steps on it and she steps into night time. Overhead it was 2-3pm. There’s inky starry sky overhead. Kellen can’t hear people too well, and then gets lightheaded and kinda fuzzy. She turns to come back and can breathe again.
Mornie goes in next. Then Arienh. Shadow experiments commence. The stars look correct to Arienh.
We continue on the way. Nothing else to find here.
First lake found! It’s too big to cross before it gets fully dark.
Camp. There are similar outcroppings of the blue crystal around the lake. They are growing like mold and there’s a sharp delineation between rock and not-rock.
Mornie skips some stones on the water. The lake is glass still.
The night is nerve wracking, last watch MK and Mornie feel the pressure wave that rustles the bushes and distant trees. Some large form.
Mornie wakes people up. We all hear in draconic a sharp commanding word. Tiny hut fades.
Dragon is flying in and changes the air pressure. The night sky becomes sharp and clear. Mornie realizes she’s somewhere else. She’s on a landscape on a pale blue rocky stone. She looks around and sees blue sphere overhead. The landscape is not rocky, it’s ruined. There were buildings constructed out of that stone, now ruined.
And then she’s back and everything is okay.
MK shoots arrows at the dragon and trips it. It falls to the ground and falls prone.
Arienh attacks, but there’s some gray shield around it.
Kellen tries to dispel it, but nothing happens and it looks like a dome around him.
An arrow coming from somewhere killed Airell’s owl.
Wardens appear off to the right on the hill. They attack Airell.
airell casts earthbind on the dragon. It doesn’t work.
dragon flies up and breathes radiant lightning. It hurts a lot, and Arienh and Airell are now glowing.
MK runs to wardens and starts slashing. They poof out again.
Airell casts a spell that gives himself, Arienh, Kellen and MK advantage on saving throws and disadvantage on attacks against them.
Mornie shoots the dragon. The magic doesn’t work on him, but bullets do.
Kellen sees an acid trip, but shakes it off.
MK gets frightened and blinded and takes psychic damage hearing imaginary Xendros in her head.
Dragon drops down, Kellen’s and Airell’s magic snuffs out temporarily. He’s scary.
Kellen says they should run away and runs away.
MK also runs.
Dragon beats his wings.
Airell Flame strikes.
Mornie yells “magic is erratic like a tear of Chained oblivion”.
Dragon breathes fire again on MK, Kellen and Mornie.
Kellen shoots at a warden.
Dragon attacks Arienh.
We need to run, trying to figure out how.
Kellen casts Fog cloud and yells retreat.
Arienh wild shapes into a dire wolf.
Arienh was researching the locations were the obelisks were. She researched about obelisk in Ket amid a barren field of stone.
Dragon uses legendary action to Detect.
Airell pulls out a scroll of Teleport, barely manages to cast it, but causes a mishap. 12 force damage. Target was Lapolla in Baklunish West. It missed a bit, so we don’t know where we are. But no dragons around.
Feeling of being watched is no longer there.

Inspiration: Kellen for the Fog cloud

Session 119 12/26/2024-ML
Nearing dusk, Earthday, Patchwall 20. Battle mop up. Kellen, Airell, and MK are trying to loot the mountain formerly known as living fortress. MK is looking for survivors. More head chopping ensues. Kellen finds a silver drinking mug. Airell finds a fire giant gold hammer and 120 feet fire resistance rope.

The falling star shows up a few hours into this and asks if they want a ride home. The crew clearly wants approval and Airell gives them a decent speech. They would do anything for the IT crew.

Mornie and Arienh escort DeRosse across the battlefield to the king. After greeting him, the king takes us to what was the back of the giant line. There is an altar-like thing made of adamantine covered in pictures of giant and particularly fire giant history. The king plans to have it moved to Niel Dra.

We meet up in the camp. After an hour of clean up time Darvin Windhill and Uriah who guided us through the mountains when we ghosted that one time. Uriah is pretty beat up and Arienh gives him the dragon vessel healing potion. Darvin is in a great mood and Kellen says, “We were great, weren’t we?” Mornie insights, but Kellen is just happy for the first time in ages.

The king wants to see us. Darvin leads us into the king’s tent where the king is going over maps and papers with Cardon the herald. Arn is there too. Bishop Cydric is in a foul mood (he fled the battlefield. Servant of the god of valor. Not a good look). Duchess of Geoff is there. They are all waiting for us. The king greets us and lets us know that an accounting of our deeds will be made and everyone will know us for the heroes we are. He says we can ask anything of our king. MK asks for a demotion for Feldren. Bad idea. Airell interrupts to say we can talk of this later, we wouldn’t want someone unjustly tossed out. Aka we know it’s a bad look. The issue is that it was not just one person who fled. And we need those men to finish off the giants.

Mornie says something came up during the battle and we now have a thing to handle. The king wants to know who all the dragons were. Do we know the name of the blue dragon, he asks? Kymneraph. Carden and the king are not happy about that. They suspected, but hoped it was not. They recognize him.

Duke Feldron storms in and throws a bundle of letters on the table. “I will not be insulted like this!”

Cardwn steps forward and subtly hands the bundle of papers to Arienh. He tells Feldron it is just a well worded “go home”.

Arienh is reading the papers. Sure enough it’s a formal thank you for your service, honorable discharge, full of subtle insult.
Feldron says he’s going to take command of the reconquest of Sterich. The King pushes through us and says, “You will take your leave or the dismissal to follow will state why.” Mic drop.

Feldron’s had goes back to his sword and MK reaches for her axe and DeRosse interrupts them both. The king insults and dismisses Feldon who leaves.

Kellen subtle spells mind spike on Feldron. She wants to know where he is for the next hour. He goes back to his tent and stays there for the duration.

The king asks Airell and Carden to stay, everyone else leaves. Airell tells him about the request from Greyhawk for aid. The king says it’s possible and requests that he keep the Falling Star through the winter to aid in his ability to raise additional troops.

The valley of the mage has been under the control of the grey elves and no one comes back from there. The Falling Star is too obvious to take in.

Airell says the dragon was a blue dragon but had some inconsistencies with normal blue dragons. What’s up with that? He is physically different than Blue Dragon descriptions and his own description from 150 years ago. He’s a powerful mage. Something important, something about Sergal, sorry, I stepped away. Kimnerith seemed to be searching for the low sigh of power?? Kymneraph has always been interested in arcane lore.  He investigated the source of the Godtrap and Zagyg’s last action as a mortal was to drive the dragon out of Greyhawk.   Carden remembered that 150-160 years ago a Lendorian pirate named Syrgaul was an agent of Kymneraph.  Kymneraph was searching for “loci of power” for some purpose.  Carden thinks they may be the obelisks we keep dealing with. Airell says yeah probs, he, like, wants to break one or something.

Over to MK. As we leave Arn approaches her. “Sister, I wanted to speak with you.” He thinks MK is upset with him because she didn’t come visit since she’s been back. MK says we were trying to save the world and there was a big change, exorcism and what not, but she thinks of him every day. Then she has to explain the demon thing. Arn is confused, but happy.

Airell is being escorted out by the king, supplies and preparations offered so we can go do our thing. The king heads off and Airell updates us. He and Mornie discuss the non standard blue dragon issues. He and his sister were hatched at the same time which isn’t supposed to happen and they shouldn’t both exist so he wants to change himself so they can coexist but every time he brings his sister back she is enraged and attacks her, forcing him to slay her again he slays her again. During their migrations east into the Flanaess, then ancient Oeridians encountered a young Kymneraph.  The wyrmling dragon would guide some of the Oeridians through the mountains and others he guided to their deaths.  Yes, Kymneraph is THAT old.

Kymneraph wants the body blood of the fist of the furnace to create a set of standing stones for an obelisk.  He plans to use the power of the obelisk to change himself into something else. This is what Mordenkainen and Xendros did to MK in the Godtrap (the “test run”).  Note, Arienh’s vision says this is going to go badly.  Maybe something to do with those missing runes Mordenkainen couldn’t excavate at Saltmarsh’s standing stones.

Airell takes the dagger he stole from Feldran, gets it dulled and rounded, and sends it to Feldran with a note that says, “A dagger fit for one who’s skills were shown on the battlefield today.”

Later we hear tales of what happened when Feldran received this package. He spends the better part of a day trying to find out who did it. When no one saw anything and can tell him nothing he gets increasingly mad.

The next morning we leave for the valley of the mage. We take the falling star most of the way to the border, about 20 miles out. Sorrel has already found out we committed the falling star to helping the king for the winter. She doesn’t show unhappiness about this, but the whole crew is pretty strung out from a summer of war.

We discuss the grey elves and how to approach. Kellen says there are merchant gnomes who live in the valley and we can say we are going to them. The falling star drops us about a days walk from the border and we walk a little way closer. Arienh casts commune with nature and finds a slight fey presence, a fair number of magical beast and monstrosities, no prevalent peoples, and no buildings.

Mornie gives us all a bottle of apple brandy. It’s delicious.

We travel on and decide to bluff our way in. Arienh will be a donkey, MK and Mornie will be body guards. Arienh continues to regularly cast commune with nature but detects no people, no settlements, etc. MK makes a sign post in case we are caught in a loop.

We are bedding down for the night when Airell writes on a piece of paper that there are three figures that are watching us from the tree line and Mornie should check it out. Kellen floats up to look around. Mornie goes invisible and stealths up. There are three elves doing a very good job of not being seen. Eventually she hears them speak and they are speaking a dialect of draconic.

She comes back, Kellen gives her comprehend languages, and she heads back to the elves. As she goes, she sees two of the shapes slowly headed down, bows drawn. Mornie draws a gun and shoots at one. Misses, yells, why are you trying to shoot at us, we are just merchants!

They shoot Arienh. We fight. Every time we hit them, they vanish. Except the one near Airel, he takes damage and doesn’t poof away. At some point Mornie hears the elf say, “IT crew identified at border, have engaged, withdrawing.”

We fight, find some real and a lot of not real. We get one real one and knock him out.

Inspiration: MK, Airell
Session 118 12/1/2024 - MS
Earthday, Patchwall 20th. It’s a chilly morning with patches of fog everywhere. We are at the cusp of fighting with the giant army. Our goal is to deal with the giants, but Duke Feldren decided that his glory is more important than following through with the King’s plan. We now have to salvage this problem with the armies of Keoland and us. The Fist of the Furnace is here and we have to take care of this titan and make sure that he doesn’t survive this. We cannot allow him to live after knowing that Mordenkainen wants to use his lifeblood to power new standing stones, but he’s wrong. What he will end up doing is the opposite of what he wants.

Mornie tries to get the nightmare to follow her direction, but it ignores her and starts flying up in the sky. In her frustration of the lack of help, Mornie takes the green dragon potion from Arienh and drinks it without thinking. She unfolds into an adult green dragon. Arienh stands up on the horse, jumps, and then turns into a Planatar. People recognize it is her as the thorn crown is still present. MK and Ariell are hasted and Kellen flies out to the army.

MK runs up to the first magma hulk to try and take it out. She uses her blood on her ax and in her rage, she lodges it deep into the hulk and then yanks out its heart. It then explodes in its death spasms. The magma knocks MK down and we can see that she is burning a little from the fire. But, she’s breathing and conscious.

Duke Feldren leads his calvary into the fray, but the giants so successfully prevent his attack, that he panics and his whole line collapses. Kellen flies over the whole giant army and breathes weakening breath on them. We can see that the eyes of the giants start glazing over with confusion.The Giffins then come in for an attack and suppress the reserve light cavalry.  The cavalry does prevent the army from dispersing. The archers then set themselves into position to fire arrows into the giants. The right flank then falters as the giants continue to dominate the field.

The floating stone giant pelts MK with flying shards, then Mornie breathes out poisonous gas on the fire giants. The Fist of the Furnace yells out an order and the huscarl throws a stone at Mornie. The rune giant flies towards us and hits one of his runes on his armor to put some sort of protection around the Fist of the Furnace. Arienh flies to the Fist and hits him with her greatsword weapon that looks like a morning star. The Fist tries to bend her to his will, but fails. Arienh Stormcaller refuses to bow to his majesty. Airell’s shield flashes and he aims Flame Strike at the two giants by MK.

The Fist then reaches out with his fire fist and grapples and restrains Mornie. She plummets to the ground taking a lot of damage. He then strikes at Arienh and hurts her a little. A ravaging beast then charges into the fray from the regular battle.

MK attacks the closest fire giant and takes out his leg and he bleeds out. MK is a bit shocked by the natural violence she causes. She whips out her bow to shoot at the stone elemental giant. She hits and then heads for the Fist.

Arienh continues to hit the Fist with her morning star. The Fist calls out to two of his giants and they throw stones at Arienh.

The Falling Star starts pelting the giants and griffins with arrows, cannonfire, and shrapnel. The griffin riders are taken out!!! The ember roc dives at the Falling Star, but the cannonballs prevent it from doing more damage on the army and Sorhel was able to avoid the roc’s attack.

The King see’s Feldren’s attack fail and tries to wheel his troops to help with the flank. He rallies the troops successfully. The giant’s line smashes back into the troops and takes out the King’s calvary. The battle is hanging in the balance.

Kellen flies into the fight with the Fist. She exudes Fear as she barrels in and the giants around the Fist are frightened of her. She yells “Witness Me” and bites and claws the Fist. He closes his Fist and demands fealty from everyone, but it only affects Kellen and MK as they are forced to the ground and are prone.

The Fist takes out the Mornie dragon and Mornie is prone on the ground. Kellen loses her dragon form after the Forgecaller summons a regisaur to attack her. Mornie tries to shoot the Fist and misses. The Falling Star barrages the battlefield with a bunch of shrapnel and everyone has to scatter for cover. After the dust settles, one of the monstrosities has fled the battle and the Dust Hulk is destroyed. Ariell then banishes the regisaur.

Arienh heals Mornie and then heads back into the fray with the Fist of the Furnace. After misting away, Arienh is hit by the huscarl by a rock and is stunned. MK comes in and hits the Fist really hard. The Fist then pushes MK back and makes her prone.

The main battle continues to rage and we need to get some wins soon. Kellen removes one of the giants by banishing it. The forge collar tries to end Kellen’s spell and fails. *phew*

Mornie lines up her wheellock pistol and shoots the Fist through the head. The entire battle field hears, “Hello! I just shot a man. And I shot him on purpose!” The Fist falls to the ground and expires. A ghostly hand then shoots the forgecallerr with necrotic bullets. She turns and hits the nearest fire giant.

We then feel a whoosh of air as a blue dragon appears. It has shimmering aquamarine blue scales and its eyes are glowing. Riding on its back is Mordenkainen. A shimmering globe is surrounding the dragon.

The dragon shoots out lightning at the remaining giants and left them with a moonlight glow. The giants are looking quite hurt. Mordenkainen casts teleport on himself and the blue dragon who was carrying the Fist in his claws.

We then have to start dodging out of the way of arrows as the Keoland army is shooting at the giant army. The two banished creatures return to the battle and we head in to finish them off, frustrated that Mordenkainen got what he wanted and we couldn’t prevent him.

The roc is visibly diminishing after the death of the Fist and is chased off by the Falling Star. The roc is then taken out by the FS. The giants continue to throw rocks into the army and successfully suppress the Lankkamp Yeoman Reserves. The giants animated by the Fist are starting to collapse, including the Living Fortress. Panic spreads through the giants left and right, and they panic and run. The regisaur is taken out and then shrinks down into a figurine of wondrous power. Arienh picks it up.

DeRosse leads his final charge to save the King’s standard and to find the King. The King is living, but DeRosse is cut down. The Bishop and Lord Marshall both survive. Arienh flies back to the main army and starts healing the King. Mornie hangs on for the ride and when she gets there, she starts helping with the wounded. The King hears that DeRosse is dead and visibly starts breaking. Arienh tells him, “Hope is not lost. Wait.” She takes Mornie and they head to DeRosse. She brings back DeRosse and Mornie helps. He sees this angel and then Arienh fades back into herself. Mornie starts helping him get out of his armor and starts helping him with healing even more. He gets the info that the battle is done and that we won, so he gets up and starts heading back to the King.

Looking up into the sky, Wydhaus and the Falling Star are seen cleaning up the remnants of the giant army. Airell, MK, and Kellen head to the Living Fortress to see if they can get any loot. When they get there, there is a heated small mountain of rubble.

The army is a diminished version of itself, but it’s slowly starting to heal. Things aren’t as bleak for them as it was. Wydhaus, of course, comes in telling everyone that the battle was glorious.

One piece keeps coming back to our minds - We need to get to the blue dragon and deal with the potential ending of the world.

Inspiration:
