Session 54 - January 22, 2022
MK, Kellen, Arienh, and Mornie are in the room of the inn (Roc & the Oliphant) waiting for word from Airell.

Arienh sends out a bunch of animals using animal messenger. She tries to get a bead on Airell, but no success. Where is he? Something must have gone wrong.

*****
Airell is dragged into jail. He surreptitiously sends his owl familiar up on the roof. The jailors rough him up a bit and strip him of all of his things, but they do not think to gag him. Good. At least something is going my way.

Thinking quickly, Airell mentally goes through his spells trying to figure out which ones would work for him in his current predicament. Ah…locate object! He mentally reaches out to his familiar. Go! Find a forked twig! Bring it back to me. It takes off.

Airell breaks off his concentration when he hears a slight scratching sound at his door. He notices that the viewing slit begins to open very slowly. No shape fills the viewing slit, so Airell cautiously moves forward. It’s Ajarmash’s voice…but it’s really the Rakshasa. But, the Rakshasa is invisible!

After some pointed verbal jabs at Airell, the Rakshasa said, “I’m really disappointed in you. Did you think it would be that easy?” He then proceeds to compare Airell with Skerrin in how Skerrin thought he was too smart. “Tomorrow, you have a date with an angry mob.” Airell then hears a slight “cling” as the iron turnkey to his jail cell is pushed through the slit and falls to the ground.

“And Airell, thank you so much for bringing your friends. I sent them a little party. The Bishop sends her regards to them…in the form of zealots who wish to rid the world of evil.” He laughs a little at Airell’s expression. Airell quickly changes the topic.

Airell asks, “Are you tied to my bow?” Ignoring the question, the Rakshasa then says, with his voice fading away, “There’s a party coming to see you. They’ll be here soon.” Airell can hear the smile in his voice.

Airell hears the gate to the fence open up. A group of people approach: some of the Nightwatch, the justice, the Guildsmeister, and Lundraed Amberbrand. Airell quickly (and stealthily) drops the turnkey into the chamberpot. Their weapons are drawn and there’s also a scribe there to take notes during the conversation.

Airell flippintly starts asking Lundraed questions like “How’s the gambling going, Lundraed? Have you been playing with ….” Lundraed refuses to answer, scowls, and says, “That’s Montana Smith.”

Airell then hears that Lundraed used one of the scrying crystal balls from the Guild of Wizardry to find Airell in the church. Lundraed then proceeds to tell the party how he knows Montana Smith from last year. He claims (rightfully, but with no proof) that Smith was cheating. You could never prove that, Airell smirks subtly. Airell starts bringing up more people that he knows from that time he stayed, but Lundraed ignores the questions and keeps talking. The justice then turns to Airell, “You’ll have a chance to make your statement tomorrow, at your trial.” They leave.

Shit. Okay, where’s my owl?

******
Arienh, Mornie, and Kellen head outside the inn, leaving MK behind. They can’t risk MK getting recognized. Kellen puts on her halfling disguise again - must be careful!

As they step out onto the street, They notice that there’s an older human across the street who is staring at them with recognition in his eyes. He is not armed and approaches them without obvious hostile intent.

“Hello, I’m Brother Sebastian. I am a Paladin of Rao and I heard that you might need some help.”

Mornie and Arienh look at each other confused, “How?” they blurt out.

“You see, I was painting, and Rao inspires me to paint those who need my help. I painted the four of you.”

They ask him to show the painting, which he does, and it’s obvious that it’s a new painting. Kellen remembers that Rao is a god of peace, logic and wisdom. She then pointedly asks him, “Can you help us with the priests of St. Cuthbert? They might have our friend.” Brother Sebastian says yes. He says that he even knows the Bishop Kaan-ipzire.

After moving the party over a bit out of the main walkway, Mornie asks Brother Sebastian some more suspicious questions: What else do you know? How could you help us?

Brother Sebastian calmly answers them all - He had heard about someone trying to lie under the Zone of Truth; He can be a mediator/negotiator.

His calmness convinces them that he can help, so they start heading off to the church of St. Cuthbert. Approaching the gate to the Garden District, it’s obvious that the guards there are searching intently for MK. They enter through the gate separately to avoid appearing together and recognizable as a group. After stepping through, a cryer yells, “The Garden strangler has been arrested. Trial in the morning. Hanging at noon.” They look at each other with dismay.

Mornie turns to Brother Sebastian, “Do you know where they would send a prisoner like that?” “Yes. Let’s go this way.”

As they walk closer to the jail, Arienh and Mornie try to contact Airell on his earring. No answer.

Back in the jail, Airell’s owl finally shows up with a forked twig. He’s able to cast “locate object” on his holy symbol and senses its location within the jail. Airell starts making plans to break out.

Brother Sebastian tells the group that he can get in to see their friend. He wants to know how their friend could possibly lie under the Zone of Truth.

Approaching the guards, Brother Sebastian asks for admittance in to see the Garden strangler. He’s able to persuade them that a man of the cloth can talk to the accused.

While he’s talking to the guards, Arienh prepares to send in a rat animal messenger to Airell. This will be the message the rat says: We’re outside. Brother Sebastian is a temporary friend. Give us a signal that you’re alright.

Airell then hears some talking from the guards and he sees a human male approaching his cell. After talking for a bit, more of Airell’s story comes out - there’s a Rakshasa! Brother Sebastian has heard about this creature and then understands more about the wrongness of what is going on. Brother Sebastian tells Airell that he will see what he can do to help. As Brother Sebastian leaves, the rat comes in and blurts out Arienh’s message.

Airell sends out his owl familiar to find the party, land on a nearby awning, and start dancing a jig. Kellen giggles a little at the sight.

Walking out from the jail, Brother Sebastian approaches one of the guards. He compares the story that Airell told him with the story that the guards know about Airell. Brother Sebastian thanks the guards for their help and walks sedately outside to Mornie, Arienh, and Kellen. He fills them in.

Acting quickly, Kellen casts invisibility on her and Mornie and they climb over the prison wall. Locating Airell’s cell, Kellen climbs on Mornie’s shoulders so that she can whisper to Airell. “Airell, we’re here. I’m going to turn you into a spider so that you can get out.”

“No! I need to get my stuff. Turn me into a rat. Have Flicker fly me out.” Kellen wiggles her fingers, changes Airell, and sends Flicker inside. Flicker, not used to being in a cramped space, flaps around a bit, picks up a rat, and then misjudges the distance to the door. Flicker crashes through the small window, dropping the rat on the other side. The guards hear the ruckus, run through the locked gate, and see that there’s a strange flying creature flapping around. Flicker disappears.

Flustered, they turn around to get out and notice that they are locked in. They yell to the sergeant to let them out. He growls at them, gets them out, and then they blurt out what they saw. The sergeant opens up the doors, cusses them out, looks into Airell’s cell, sees that Airell is gone and yells, “He’s escaped!” (They totally didn’t notice the rat.)

Airell the rat is able to scamper over to the locked room where his holy symbol, and hopefully all his stuff, is located. He squeezes under the door and recognizes his gear.

Outside, Kellen hears the sergeants raising the alarm, counts to 100, then dismisses the polymorph spell on Airell. Inside, Airell pops back into his regular form and quickly gathers all his things. Oh shit. My bonnet is missing. Damn that Rakshasa.

Kellen then says, “We need to create a diversion. I’ll put on Airell’s face and run away from here to draw away the guards. Can you help me get over the wall? Will you be able to escape?” Mornie tells her not to worry and then helps Kellen get over the wall. Kellen lands on the other side between the guards, and then sprints towards Brother Sebastian and Arienh. Mornie hears the guards say, “There he is! Go get him.”

Arienh realizes that the person running towards her is not Airell, the person is too short! Kellen runs by and says, “He needed time!” Kellen runs quickly down the street, but it turns into a dead end. She pops invisible and rolls under a bush. The guards chasing her think that she ran into the theater and so they run straight into the building. Kellen remains huddled.

Back in the jail, Airell realizes that he’s locked in, so he disguises himself as a guard. He starts yelling, “I’m locked in here! Let me out!” The guards yell back that they don’t have the key, but they tell him to unlock the window and he could get out that way. Airell runs out and they ask him how he got in there. “I didn’t want to get chewed out by the Sarge.” They nod in sympathy.

Airell walks out of the prison, waves to Brother Sebastian and Arienh, and then walks the opposite direction. He gets far enough from the prison to change his disguise to a servant.

Mornie, still inside the prison walls, climbs over without being seen. She then uses her earring to contact Arienh. After she explains what happened, she contacts Kellen to let her know that the party is heading to the Duke’s gate and to join them.  Kellen catches up to them at the bridge.

Arienh uses the sending stone to talk to MK. Says that there are people after them, Airell is free, and to meet them at the Arena. MK replies and heads over.

It takes them an hour to meet up with MK because of the amount of patrols looking for Airell. MK almost completely loses her patience in waiting for them.

The Arena is near a guard station, but the guards do not fully recognize MK. MK squints into the midnight air and finally sees the group walking up, with a strange human man. Pulling Arienh aside, MK asks who Brother Sebastian is. MK is very, very suspicious and Arienh is able to mostly convince her that the paladin is reliable.

They then discuss the scrying that found Airell in the church. Airell convinces them that he should be in a separate room. Mornie hands back Airell’s bag of holding. The crew heads back to get a different room and Brother Sebastian stays with them. Kellen sends Flicker with Airell.

Back in Airell’s room, he ritual casts Alarm and he also notices that Arienh’s familiar is outside the room. He settles into his room cataloging all of his things. He decides to open up his book to see what other spells he has. Airell’s eye catches the title on the fifth page of his book “Contact Other Plane.” *&%*()@!!!

While resting, the crew hears another cryer, “Garden Strangler escaped. Murdered mage in Clerksberg. Garden Strangler on the loose in Clerksberg.”

Inspiration: Kellen.


Session 55 - February 5, 2022

Flashback to pre Airell escape:

We are all (except Airell) in the private room at the inn. Mornie says “Gather ‘round, y’all” and proceeds to dump the contents of Airell’s bag of holding on the floor. A bunch of stuff rolls out. Potions, clothes, a couple heavy bags of money, the diadem from the sahuagin priestess (oh yeah, we should do something with that. Kinda forgot in all the kraken chaos). Nothing incriminating, nothing stolen (from the party at least). Kellen tries to open one of the bags of money and it forms a mouth that starts screaming at her. “Help!! I’m being stolen!!” She puts it back quickly and somewhere out there we know Airell is laughing.

Kellen takes one of Airell’s healing potions and swaps it for a disguised potion of love. After all, Airell messed with her pearl a few years back and delayed payback is just as sweet. Mornie puts a note in Airell’s fancy clothes that says “Mornie was here”.  Mornie also mentions knowing that Airell “doesn’t need to compensate for anything”. She is vague on how she knows this…

Back to the present:

Airell is staying in a room by himself so that if (when) the priests skry on him they won’t know where he is or that we are with him. We do need to move him eventually though since as soon as there is a big event at the stadium across the street the noise will be a dead giveaway to his location. New wanted posters are up too.

Airell casts contact other planes and guess who he talks to?? No, you’re wrong. Nope, that’s not it either. Ok, I’ll tell you. It was Eda. A very-grumpy-at-being-tricked-into-talking-to-Airell and very much head-still-attached Eda. Still, she answers his questions:
Where has the Rakshasa been staying? The house of the bishop.
How many times can he plane shift now? Once.
Who is his next target? Fan boy  (aka ???)
Can it see us? No.
Can we keep it from plane shifting away? Don’t let it speak or move it’s hands.

Eda asks how Saltmarsh is doing. She isn’t happy about the Ma Garret thing. She says, “Tell Arienh… something she will like.” Eda was always so good at saying nice things.

When Airell gets back he tells us about the place he was in and Arienh recognises it as the twin paradises of Bi-topia, land of hard and honest work. Because of course that’s where Eda is. And she still complains. Airell tells Arienh Eda says she’s proud of her and she should do something about Ma Garret.

Once again we leave MK and Airell playing 20 questions via earring in their separate rooms at the inn (we pay for another night) while the rest of us head out to scout the bishop’s house. Flickr scouts the outside and finds it eerily silent. No people, no movement. Arienh’s rat familiar works its way through the house finding lots of dust, no blood, and then a fox person in the library, reading. The smell of food and sounds of clattering come from the kitchen so the rat checks it out. At the kitchen table two insect creatures and a lizard/bat/humanoid are playing dice in absolute silence. They are fiends called Yugoloths (neutral evil, mercenaries). The rat smells rotting flesh coming from one of the three doors across the kitchen and starts to sneak across to investigate. However, it is seen and smashed from 15 feet away by one of the creatures. Arienh’s sight returns as the rat pops out of existence and she says “I am SO glad I didn’t go myself. Familiars are amazing, I hope we never lose them.” (Dun, dun, duuun…)

We all head back to the inn to discuss options as a group. While we were gone, Airell has been busy cross dressing making a disguise. He can now go out as ‘Ariel’ (I forget what he rolled for the disguise DC but I think it was mid 20s). We decide to go convince the fan boy to help Montana and leave Airell and MK discussing bra sizing. This may be the longest conversation they have ever had.

When we arrive at Hacrar Mistwood’s house, Mornie has a realization. This house is an exact copy of the manor in which she was trained. Or maybe this is the original. The rest of us squint and imagine it covered in blood and corpses. Yep, same house. Before we go in we teach Bro Seb the signs for Truth, Lie, Run, Fight. Ten seconds later he thinks to himself, “Ok, I got Truth and Lie. What were the other two? Oh, right. Rum and Light. I forgot to tell them I don’t drink rum…”

We knock and an elven woman answers. Mornie convinces her to let us in. When we meet Hacrar, Mornie bows, totally confusing him. Bro Seb doesn’t help matters. Hacrar says he is familiar with adventurers, no need to be formal. The elf is Hacrar’s “friend”, Ilbryn. Bro Seb sees the way Hacrar watches her like a love struck puppy. The rest of us at least get the idea that she ain’t no servant.

Finally we get around to talking about Montana. Hacrar obviously believes he is innocent and is willing to do whatever it takes to help him. Mornie says we need to stay here at his house. He says cool, anything for my best buddie and his friends. Ilbryn is not so pleased with this idea, but she quickly mimics Hacrar’s “anything you need” attitude. Arienh signs Lying to the rest of the group and nods to Ilbryn. We find out that Ilbryn has been here about 2 weeks (same as the Rakshasa. Not at all a coincidence I’m sure). Kellen pokes her with a mage hand and finds that she is a real person, not an illusion, and is affected by low level magic.

We accidentally tip off Hacrar that he may be in danger, but Mornie smooths it over (we hope) by saying he will only be in danger if he tells someone what is going on. Kellen offers to let Flickr stay here until we get our things and return. Ilbryn does not like this idea at all but tries to hide it. Bro Seb decides to stay too, Ilbryn heads off to dance practice, and a few seconds later Mornie, Arienh, and Kellen follow. Hacrar bids us farewell in a display of acting worse than MK’s singing.

We follow Ilbryn, Flickr scouting ahead. Ilbryn sees Flickr and darts into an alley where she vanishes to the surprise of the two beggars in the alley. And if the New Yorkers beggars are surprised then something super unusual is happening. Flickr can’t see Ilbryn even with blindsight. As we come around the corner we are just in time to see Ilbyn phase in, not fully substantial, lunge at Flickr, and kill him. NOOOOOOOOO!!!!!
*At the end of the notes I have something about Bro Seb being distracted by the paintings at Hacrar’s house. No idea what this means.*

Inspiration: Airell

Session 56. Feb 19-20 2022
Around noon on Waterday.  Alleyway by the temple of St Cuthberg. Arienh, Mornie and Kellen are invisible. Flickr is dead.
Ilbren transforms into something with claws, tan skin, red bat wings, barbed tail, her eyes are glowing red. She’s a succubus. We kill her real fast. Arienh brings Flickr back.

Brother Sebastian is in the library looking at paintings, and gets invited to lunch. They eat in a sunroom. There’s eel stew, carafe of red wine, and chilled white wine (very fancy). Hacrar says that there was a spice peddler, and usually they send those away, but this time Ilbren bought some spices and made this eel stew for everyone. Brother tries it and it’s very very peppery. His mouth goes numb and it tastes of licorice.
Right this moment Hacrar starts calling, saying there’s something wrong with his staff. All 6 of them are unconscious. By the power of Rao Brother Sebastian heals them and cures them of what is very obviously poison.
He tries to tell Hacrar that it’s Ilbren’s doing, but fails to persuade him.

Kellen speaks with dead succubus.
Why did you come here? Hired by Ajatmish.
For what? Infiltrate and make him ready.
When is he arriving? Very soon, today.
Does Ajarmish know about us? No
Anyone else working on Hacrar? No

Arienh uses the sending stone to talk to Airell. She’s telling him to get MK and come Hacrar’s. As soon as she mentions succubus he asks to cut off the liver. Always looking to make profit.

Beggars in the alley are getting more and more freaked out and finally run away. Luckily, no one else seems to pay attention. So they propd succubus up against the church and go back to the house.

Airell and MK decide to play it safe and move inside the hole. They stop every ten minutes to get air. It takes them about 30 minutes to get there (much faster than walking!) Airell asks MK to walk the hole inside so that Airell is not seen from the outside.

A, M and K go back and Brother lets them in. He talks about the importance of trying.
Hacrar says that Ilbren opened the door to a wandering spice peddler, bought the spice and decided to make a meal for everyone.
Mornie tells Hacrar that Ilbren tried to poison him. Meredith rolls a 30 on persuasion with disadvantage.
We all talk about Montana being very brave.
The poison is Torpor potion and was not meant to be lethal, but to knock people out for 12-24h.
We don’t find any more of it in the kitchen.

Airell and MK arrive and the party is whole again.
Remember: Airell needs to find an alchemist in 5 days.

Kellen turns into the succubus to show what it looked like. Hacrar is really disturbed that it looks like Ilbren. He starts questioning the group. Kellen tells MK to knock him out. She goes for it.

Brother Sebastian heard the commotion from the library and goes back. He makes Hacrar comfortable.
We make plans to maybe ambush Rakshasa. Airell puts an alarm on the front door.
Mornie remembers about a secret passage in the office by the library that was in the other Drawmij’s house. It’s there. Airell and Mornie go check it out. On the bottom of the stairs there’s a door with a lock. Airell can’t open it. Second time Jono rolls 35 and succeeds. A trap springs and a lightning bolt shoots down the hall.

Brother is organizing books.

MK and Kellen hear a voice in the kitchen. They go to see who that is. Looks to be the majordomo. He asks if Hacrar is okay. Kellen sends him back to rest. Brother helps him to his bed.

Airell and Mornie come through the door into an antechamber. There’s another door in there. It’s metal with some wood on top and bottom and looks very well reinforced.

Knock knock! Kellen asks who is there. Airell looks through his owl. It’s one guy, dark skin, handlebar mustache, chin beard, looks very evil. Wearing silk tunic, pants and cloak in the colors of Ajarmish. Subte…
Kellen disguises herself as a servant, casts Armor of Agathys. She opens the door and steps back. He opens the doors wide, and lunges for Kellen. There’s high pitched screeching behind him.

The fight starts. Rakshasa is grappled by Brother’s spectral arms. MK goes wild on one of the demons. Arienh summons 8 snakes, but they die in the demon farts.

Rakshasa Plane shifts away.
MK runs into the fight, moved Brother away and make his AC 32. MK swings to kill the last enemy just as Airell’s arrows ends it right in front of her.
Kellen grabs Airell’s bonnet from a fallen demon.

Door is closed again. Flickr goes on watch duty. Cleaning up. Kellen hides the bonnet. Demons have 916 electrum pieces of a kind no one seen before. They also have engraving in their chitin. It’s 18 lb of gold total = 900gp. Airell also needs some chitin for his deeds. So everyone just sits there, sawing for a while.

Brother wakes Hacrar up. He sees the bodies and throws up. We tell him about the magnificent adventures of Montana. He’s suffering some short term memory loss and is completely out of it.
Servants are still all sleeping.
Knock knock! Someone else invisible is at the door. Another fiend is coming.  It’s the fox headed creature Arienh saw before.
He says that fiends all have the ability to be reborn somewhere. He was hired by Ajarmish to  scry and provide support in the fight. But Ajarmish is an asshole to work for and he wants to offer his services to us. His name is Zuterhes the Arcanaloth. Tufusa was the big guy we killed.

He wants to roam around our heads, and he will tell us about Ajarmish. We begrudgingly agree.
Things we learn:
Bishop is dead and is in the cellar of their house. She lived with a couple of high ranking acolytes. They were sent away with sealed letters that implicate Montana as the strangler. They are told to open the letters if she’s dead.
Rakshasa’s Spellcasting: invisibility, illusions, control mind, hypnotism - at will, fly, true seeing, plane shift - 1/day.
He doesn’t know who the next targets are.
He doesn’t know where the acolytes are.
Weaknesses - creature of good alignment with a weapon that pierces the body it hurts a lot.
Rakshasa is less tough than Tufusa.
How can we meet him? Find the next target, but he doesn’t know who he is.

He gives us a Quest: Find a man named Toy Maker. Airell knows of a person in Artisan quarter who makes toys. The Workshop is called The Grinning Mamet. Ajarmish and Tufusa would go visit him to find information on his next victim.
He wants to know the name. After we find that out we will meet for dinner. Meet at Gold Dragon Inn an hour after sunset.

Questions he asks (with Detect Thoughts):
• Arienh’s heritage
• What she plans to do about it.
• Why would Arienh unleash a vampire on this world.
• MK - what does she know about the demon like thing inside her
• MK - everything she remembers about her mother. - They were traveling together, mother was taking random jobs. That’s how MK started performing and became singer/dancer/everything.
•  Kellen - why did she not break contract with Chained Oblivion right away. She didn’t know it was an option.

He turns invisible and walks out the door.

Airell goes to check on Hacrar. They talk about Vivian and decide to bring her in this house.
Airell asks about the vault and says that monsters tried to get to it. Hacrar says it’s their family vault and there’s some gold there and heirlooms.
Hacrar sent a messenger to Vivian and he didn’t return.
Knock knock! It’s Vivian. She really wants to talk to Montana. She asks if he is the strangler. And if not - who is. He tells her about Rakshasa. She looks relieved. Happy reunion.
While that was happening Mornie was looking in the library for information about Rakshasa. She finds some books. Beau rage quits. She confirms information that we already know.

Arienh goes to find Mornie. Mornie is not happy with our behavior. She wants us to act like a team and feel like she was not included enough. We should’ve not opened the door. Arienh confirms that this time she locked the door. They go back to the group.

Ideas for later: give out toys to scry on people.

Airell casts Contact Other Plane: Eda is still there.
Name of toy maker - Sen Thelamae.
Why would toy maker and Kellen be good friends - they both make deals that they regret.
Who’s the next target - Vivian.
When - tomorrow. He seems to be pissed.
Who else is coming with him - Trarguars goristro.

Rakshasa’s claws carry a curse, so Kellen and Brother can’t rest now. They go to the temple of Rao to ask the priests to remove it.
Arienh needs a magic weapon to stab Ajarmish.

Temple of Rao is quite far.
On the way there Kellen and Brother stop by Nolagan’s Trove that looks like a magic store.. Kellen dresses up like Vivian, but the shopkeep sees through her illusion. He thinks she’s an artificer.
Lots of interesting things there:
* Oath bow. Elvish make. Set someone as your enemy and you get advantage, no advantages from cover, 3d6 extra damage. But as long as the enemy is alive everyone else is at a disadvantage. 5k
* Longsword - 80-100k.  One of the 9 blades of answering.
* 1 superior HP that tastes terrible - 200gp. - purchased.
* Potion of Invulnerability x2 - 200gp
* Potion of diminution
* Scrolls: fabricate, mass cure wounds - 900gp, sunburst (very powerful) - 1000gp,scrolls of protection (prevents creatures (e.g. fiends) from entering) - 500gp


Head of the temple is Brother Ian Dragonbreath, and he’s quite a gossip. But he doesn’t like hugs. He’s happy to help. Usual donation for this kind of service is 90gp.

Airel told Vivian that she’s the next target, and she should stick with us. She suggests going to her house. She is very competent, so that’s what we do.

Mornie, Arienh and MK are going to meet the fox guy.
The Gold dragon inn is incredibly gaudy, the bouncer (silver skinned elf with an afro) doesn’t want to let them in. Mornie says that Zuterhes is waiting for them and apparently he’s on a special list.
It looks like a museum inside with random stuff. Super tacky. Taint sushi are on the menu (RawTaint).
Z ordered expensive wine and a charcuterie board in front of him. It all tasted like dirt to him, so party sneaks it into the bag of holding like the hoboes we are.
They give him the name. He asks if they know more and offers to give them information in exchange. They tell him about the pact. Arienh asks about the goristro in return.
Goristro is blunt, 20ft minotaur, hits really hard, bad temper, difficult in all cases. Very ill tempered.
Food is supposedly on the house, so they order more and take some to go.
MK gets spiced elk for Airell. Mornie gets a bottle of wine. Arienh gets pastries with iced raspberries.

The group reassembles at Vivian’s house. She’s a halfling with appropriately sized house, so there’s not a lot of room to maneuver. Some planning goes on, but flies out of the window later anyway.

Rakshasa fight.
Sword of communism comes out.
Arienh casts pixies.
MK barely resists control.
Rakshasa gets a big hug.
We kill it.
Airell says his part.
Rakshasa proposes the deal.
Kellen doesn’t bite and traps him in the bow.
Mornie kill steals from MK.
Taserface happens.
Pixies don’t get a turn.

Aftermath:
The bow is upgraded now. Now to kill the dragon turtle.
Arienh gets upset and makes pixies turn MK into a turtle. They have a “conversation”.
Police are coming. 5-0! 5-0! What are we gonna do with Airell?

Airell cuts his finger off and we plan to reincarnate him. The plan is to surrender him, get the reward, let him get executed, and then reincarnate him.

We meet the Lord Mayor of Greyhawk. We meet the head of the thieves guild.
Airell becomes a stout halfling.

Brother and MK are cursed.

Kellen has 200gp of unspent party funds.

Downtime Session. March 5th, 2022
(Notes courtesy of your DM!)

Picking up immediately after you left off:  Airell has been handed off to the authorities.  Bro Seb and Mornie overhear from the City Watch that the Watch in the Middle City is still looking for MK, and there’s mention of using spellcasters.

Your story to the Watch:  took the job for the reward, followed the patterns, figured the Strangler would attack Viviane’s house, then waited for him here.  The Watch captain believes you, but still takes you in.

At the Greyhawk courts, another Watch captain questions you.  You tell the story again.  The captain leaves, and you wait.

Captain returns with a magistrate.  You tell the story a third time.  They leave, and you wait.

Magistrate and captain returns with a full entourage of Nightwatchmen and some important seeming men:

Nerof Gasgal the Lord Mayor of Greyhawk.

Dieter Fanshen, member of the Ruling Oligarchy.

Stakaster Villaine, bishop of Zilchus and member of the Ruling Olichargy.

Org Nenshen, head of the Thieves Guild (although you don’t know that yet)...and member of the Ruling Oligarchy.

You tell your story.  Again.

No more waiting now.  Nerof and the others believe it.  You are to be publicly thanked at Airell’s hanging, and in the meantime put up for free at the Nymph and Satyr Inn.

Mornie tries to subtly inquire about “someone in their group” who had a run-in with the City Watch.  Nerof Gasgal, being a professional politician in the most cutthroat city in the known world, figures it out.  He has the magistrate settle the dispute with a 260gp fine, but tells MK to stay in the Upper City a few days until all the paperwork is cleared and the Middle City Watch told not to arrest her on sight.

Next, you’re escorted by Villaine and the Nightwatchmen to the Temple of Zlichus for your reward.  Turns out, it’s a bank.  (I’d say “because of course” but in reality religious organizations functioned as banks all the time in real life, if for no other reason than stealing from a church is seriously frowned on)

You keep 10,000gp with the Temple and get 5,000 for walking-around-money.

Finally, the NIghtwatchmen take you to the Inn.  It’s a rowdy dive bar as imagined by rich people.  Food and drink (all 57 varieties of beer & ale) are comped.

Waiting for you is Org Nenshen and an elven man named Pavea Alektrion.  Pavea is the master of the Thieves Guild of the Garden Quarter.  Because of course the Thieves Guild has departments.  And of course the Guild Master of fucking thieves sits on the Ruling Directory.

Org reveals himself as the Guild Master over the entire guild and explains that the Thieves Guild is going to try to rob you blind.  Which will probably start a war that, even when they win and kill you all, will ruin a whole bunch of their operations.  So he makes his pitch:  give them a 10% cut now, and he’ll put the word out that you’re not to be touched.  Any idiot who ignores that, you can rough up and return to him for proper punishment.  He’d consider it a personal favor to him if you agree to this.  And a favor from the master of the the entire fucking Thieves Guild surely isn’t something that the DM will come to regret later.

Mornie decides to try and haggle him down from 10%.  Org Nenshen (and maybe the DM a little bit) admires the set of brass balls of these women to try and haggle beyond the half-off discount he already offered.

He politely refuses their counter-offer, and they agree to his original terms.  Org tells them to go to the Temple of Zilchus and have them transfer the amount.  Because of course the Thieves Guild has an account at the bank.

During this, MK sizes up both Org and Pavea.  Both have less than 123 HP.   Org has more character levels than MK, and Pavea has the same number.

The thieves leave, with Pavea recommending they try the shrimp & noodle soup.  You all relax, each having your own room with a heated bath.

The next morning, you are all visited by Viviane.  She tells you that Hacrar is on the mend, and is hell-bent to get Airell freed.  He’s hired a lawyer, but Airell has confessed to all the murders.  Including the Bishop of St. Cuthbert’s murder.  The bodies were found and acolytes came forward written by “the Bishop” saying she had a vision that the Strangler would kill her.

Viviane says that if the players don’t want to live at the inn, they are welcome at her place and Hacrar’s place.

Kellen decides she wants to see The Toymaker and she’s not waiting until MK can go into the Middle City.  Because surely a guy with a mystical patron poses no threat whatsoever, and there’s absolutely no need to take along your fighter.

Mornie and Arienh are convinced to come along, and the women head down into the Artisan’s Quarter for the Grinning Mammet (the name of the shop).  It’s Freeday, so the shop is closed and dark (although there’s still toys in the window).

Kellen convinces Sen Thelamae to let them in by mentioning their Mutual Friend.  Kellen babbles about what she knows and it scares him (Meredith’s words, not mine).  Senescapes upstairs while dolls & toys come to life and attack the party.

Sen jumps out of the window of the second floor, face planting onto the street (Toymakers: not a high Athletics bonus).  When Arienh confronts him, he screams “Leave me ALONE!!!” and sprouts skeletal angel wings from his back, his eyes turning solid black.  This scares the absolute shit out of Arineh, who has probably had e-fucking-nough of this city.

Kellen races outside as well, because leaving people behind is just a thing the IT Crew does in Greyhawk.  She manages to talk Sen down and convince him to come inside.  Meanwhile, the toys swarm over Mornie, who makes a lot of really loud noises as she starts firing off her pistols indoors.  Fun fact:  the Magic Mouth did not trigger when she killed the toys.

Eventually, with the help of Kellen and Arienh’s owl, Mornie kills the toys.  Everyone goes back inside and Sen wants to know if the players are with the Strangler?  Or with Issim?  Or were they sent by Him?  (The players realize this later, but Sen really is completely fucked in so many different ways.  Poor guy.)

Sen explains that the Strangler appeared several weeks ago, and that Sen was commanded by Him to share information to him.  The Strangler appeared like a Baklunish man because the Rakshasa is fully willing to use racism to his advantage.  Then people started dying and Sen figures that when the Strangler got caught he’d tell how he found out info on his victims.

Issim, a word for ‘honored foreigner’ in Ancient Suloise, visited Sen and offered to help get him out of his pact in exchange for information to blackmail people in Greyhawk who had access to really powerful arcane lore.  After Sen describes Issim and Kellen makes her face appear like him to confirm it, they deduce that Issim is in fact Zuterhes the Arcanaloth.  He still sucks at creating illusions of people.

Sen doesn’t know who He is, but it’s clearly his patron.  When they ask if Sen knows his name, they hear a high pitched voice say “No he doesn’t!”  The voice comes from a doll in the corner.

Evil Elmo announces that he is Dispater, Lord of the Iron City and Ruler of the Second Layer of Hell (Yaaaay!). Sen is his property, having sold his soul to become a famous toymaker.  The imp in the corner that hides invisibly and watches has the contract carved into its body.  Not tattooed.  Carved.  Because it’s Hell.

Turns out Greyhawk is a pivotal place in the multiverse (no shit), and Dispater wants info on the goings on.  Dispater likes info.  He likes it so much that he offers Sen’s bag of holding and all its contents for what they know about Issim.  Turns out Dispater knows about Sen trying to get out of the pact and he plans to punish Sen for his naughty behavior.

You all refuse in a shocking display of restraint.  Don’t take on the entire Thieves Guild.  Refuse to take money from someone who attacked them.  Seriously in danger of losing their Murder Hobo membership…

But since you can’t find a way to break the pact, and not wanting to pick a fight with an archdevil, you leave Sen to his fate and return to the Nymph and Satyr.

Meanwhile, MK is enjoying a lazy morning at the inn.  Until four City Watch show up, including the one she attacked.  He insultingly wonders how MK got her crime erased, and MK only smiles.  He warns her not to come down to the Middle City because he’ll be waiting for her to make a mistake.

MK’s demon eyes flare.  She offers to meet him outside the city if he wants to dance.  The guy is pissed, but there’s not really anything he can do.  One of his fellow Watch steps in, takes the guy away.  Lazy morning?  Nah, MK is having a great morning.

Over the next few days, the party does minor business.  Arienh hugs a tree.  Kellen drags them to every magic shop she can think of.  You spend a fuckton of money.  Mornie & MK buy special bracers with hidden spring loaded daggers:  DC 15 Perception check to spot.

Airell is hanged.  The procession from the jail to the High Market is eerily reminiscent of Varsis’ hanging.  Although the people of Saltmarsh had the decency to put a hood over Varsis’ head.  Airell doesn’t get that: the crowd watches him choke to death.

But first!  Nerof Gasgal gives a speech, thanking you all and constructing the narrative about how awesome Greyhawk is…and by extension how awesome all the residents in it are (and by extension how awesome their leaders are).  If you felt bad about defrauding Greyhawk out of 15,000gp, this should absolve any of that.

Afterwards it’s a party.  “Justice” was done and the entire Ruling Oligarchy (all 18 of them) trip over themselves to shake your hands and congratulate you on being heroes.

MK Downtime - 3/20/2022 and 4/10/2022
MK, Arienh, and Gedik leave for the Yeomanry on the 22nd of Flocktime. Windwalking is fun and they take a quick break at the Sus Forest. They see some humongous spider cocoons and Gedik decides to try and cut one down. They find a very dead Orc inside, so instead of sticking around, they decide to leave quickly.

They crossed into the valley and head into Keoland towards the Jervain River.

Arienh decides to ask the aspect of winter (Nerule) to find more information on MK’s parents. She learns the following: MK’s parents’ names are Martina and Ricart; location of her parents is “Northwest” from their current location.

The group heads to Longspear, which belongs to both the Yeomanry and Keoland. Turns out that the Yeomanry closed all borders except in this place. A fortress is built on the northern side just in case Keoland decides to attack. As they approach the city, they see three distinct flags - 1 - lion on a field of red; 2 - three spears coming together on a field of white; 3 - a tower on a sea of blue.

They make the decision to fly an hour northwest of Longspear and it turns out they overshot their target. Feeling a bit hungry, they go to the Shivering Sheep to get some grub. After some small talk with the people there, the group finds out that Keoland has been hiring all kinds of people to fight the giants for the past year. In the pub, a halfling woman is sitting at the bar furiously working on a mechanism. She’s dressed in really good armor with a large backpack and introduces herself as Klee. She shares that Ricart lost his two daughters and wife and that his son runs the family manor.

After having their fill, they head off to the land camps with Klee in tow. As they make their way into the village, they see that it is an industrial center for weaving. There are carts of weaving materials coming and going on the main road. As they start going around the town, an older man on the side of the road calls out to MK, “Grrieke!” A craftsman turns around, sees MK, and stutters in shock, “Grrieke?” The older man grabs MK with a crazy amount of strength and babbles how the gods gave him his daughter back. This must be Ricart. MK, startled, looks around and sees that she’s now the center of attention. Oh great. This wasn’t supposed to happen this way!

A 12 year old boy comes through the crowd, and Arienh notices that he has a slight resemblance to MK. An older man in his 30s is following the boy who looks a lot like Ricart. Both appear like they’ve been traveling.

The boy and the older man introduce themselves as Arne and Yanik. After talking a bit in the open, it comes out that Katren and Grrieke (MK) died when Arne was three. The uncle buried Grrieke himself nine years ago. During the whole conversation, Ricart praises the gods for bringing back his daughter. MK asks if they could continue the conversation at the manor and Arne says yes.

While approaching the manor, the group notices that it could quickly be turned into a fortress if needed. During the walk, Klee says some things about how she likes to make bombs and helped out with many mercenaries, which starts to concern those around her.

After being put up in the room, Klee and Arienh compare notes on how to blow things up. Klee explains that she really wants to kill giants.

The group is then invited down for lunch. During the conversation a few things come to light:
Arne and Yanik were not expecting MK’s story and the truth of her return of wanting to meet her family.
After the loss of the two daughters, MK’s mom became depressed and jumped off the tower.
Ricart lost his mind after his wife’s death.
Katren might still be alive.
Grrieke and Katren were leading a group to the little hills when they were ambushed and killed by a group of centaurs.

Arne explains that he and his uncle are being helped by Duke Feldron to fortify the nearby cities against the giants. Klee pipes up that she worked under Duke Feldron…and that he didn’t like her very much. MK thinks, Of course not. He’s a dick. She then says, “I’ve met the Duke before.” This opened up story time! MK told the story of Duke Feldron getting his butt kicked when he tried to take the Falling Star and Saltmarsh, but failed miserably due to the IT crew. Arne is awestruck by his sister’s adventures. MK also tells them about the kraken and the Pixie Quest. After storytime is over, the group heads up to their room to rest.

MK is unable to sleep much as she feels the demon is restless inside of her. The year is almost up.

The next day, MK goes on a ride with her brother and uncle. They head to the burial site and MK sees that there have been men there excavating the site. Inside, there are two bodies. How is this possible?

Gedik and Arienh notice that the ground is starting to rumble. They tell Arne who immediately takes on the visage of an experienced ruler and tells his men to sound the horn. They head out to the Dammerspur, which is a passage in the valley where they can rain down arrows on the giants.

In about 15 minutes, 2 dozen shapes of various sizes are spotted on the horizon. The ground is rumbling like an earthquake. There are five hill giants, ogres, and ettines, stone giants, and a fire giant. Klee yells out that one of the stone giants is a dream walker - one who can petrify and charm. She also points out that stone giants can throw up to 240 feet away and that fire giants are immune to fire.

Well, then let’s slow these bastards down. Arienh grits her teeth, points out her staff, mumbles some words, and then plants start to grow crazy fast in the valley area. The giants start tripping on all the new growth and lose their forward momentum. Arne starts directing the Yeomen to fire their bows. MK shoots her bow as well and their combined might takes out the dreamwalker.

Klee throws some of her bombs, which turn out to be fireballs. The giants scream in pain and keep trying to move forward.

The Yeomen send another hail of arrows which wipe out the ogres and stone giants. MK, whipping out her giant slayer sword, takes out the final ogre with two great sweeps of her sword.

Some knights on horses then come from the same direction as the giants and finish off the remaining stragglers. Arienh is mobbed by happy Yeomen thanking her for the plant growth!

The knights ride up to the Yeomen and the leader rips off his helmet. It’s Duke Feldrin! He yells, “What fool obstructed our field? It now needs to be cleared. You! You! Start clearing out this mess immediately!” The Duke starts yelling out orders and the Yeomen don’t move, glaring at him.

Arne approaches the Duke and he politely reminds him that the Yeomen are freemen and not to be ordered around. The Duke visibly composes himself, clenches his teeth, and composes a better response. Lady Rael Wythorne of Elgarin (of Selouise descent) introduces herself. She thanks the Yeomen for their expertise in taking out the giants. As she is speaking, the Duke recognizes MK and Arienh. MK says, “You fought well, my Lord.” The Duke starts extending his hand, narrows his eyes as he recognizes the sword at her hip, glares, then points his hand, shouting, “This woman is a thief! Arrest her!”  Everyone gasps.

The story comes out that a year ago the sword and 20K gold was stolen from the Duke. In a rage, the Duke tries to convince the knights and Yeomen to arrest MK. He continues to rant that MK is a thief.

Arne tries to have the Duke retire, but the Duke whips around and backhands him. MK catches Arne, who then wipes some blood from the corner of his mouth. MK whispers, “Don’t. The Duke isn’t worth it. Trust me.” MK looks up and sees that Lady Rael is holding back the Duke, trying to calm him down.

Arne nods to MK, straightens up and puts his hands up. Through much restraint, Arne states that the Duke has no jurisdiction here. MK is his sister and he will figure things out, but if the Duke hits him again, the Duke will not leave here alive. Arne tells the Duke to leave.

Lady Rael tells the knights, “We need to leave while we can.” The Duke, of course, is pissed. He is guided to his horse and leaves reluctantly. Everyone watches as the Duke and his knights leave and head south to Longspear.

After the sound of the horses disappears, Arne turns to MK and asks her how she got the sword. MK, looking quite confused, confesses that she doesn’t remember. So much has happened the past two years and she honestly cannot recall how the sword came into her possession. Arne asks her to stick around until this can be solved. She asks him if she can stay at the inn instead of the main house. (MK is very worried because the demon inside her really doesn’t like this place. It makes it really rough for MK to sleep.)

After two days, Yenik asks MK and the rest of the group to come to the main house as there’s a messenger from the King. Carden Blacksworn is coming (the Herald) to solve this issue.

On the third day, Carden and his contingent show up. When MK and the group come to him, he starts reminiscing that the Duke had been doing so well. Carden thanks the group for their help in dispatching the giants. He mentions that the Fire Giants are a new addition to their problems. It comes out that the fire giants are leaders and they were organizing the giants in this latest incident.

Carden then asks MK to give the sword back to the Duke. It was a gift from his father-in-law and it is embossed with Feldrin’s crest. MK shrugs, then gives it back. Carden then tells the story of how the Duke lost the sword.

Carden asks MK and Arienh for clarification regarding the kraken. They tell the story and Carden says when they are finished that Keoland owes the IT Crew a debt. Arienh then asks for the level 9 planar binding spell. Carden looks surprised, but agrees to try and find it.

Arne then brings out a family battleax to replace her weapon. It’s a beautiful ax made of mithril and silver and it has the family crest: Our deeds speak for us.”

Yusoglir’s crest is on the other side of the ax. Arienh recognizes it. It turns out that the crest is originally dwarven. It was a gift to the family.

MK graciously takes it and gives the minotaur skull to be hung up on the manor’s wall.

Before they leave, Arienh memorizes a tree. Klee gives Arienh a sending stone and says to contact her in case she needs help. Arne offers Klee a permanent spot to stay. Arienh then takes MK and Gedik through the tree to Greyhawk.

Questions for Drawmij:
What’s up with the body in MK’s grave?
Where’s MK’s sister?


Session 56 4-22-22

We prep for greyhawk castle by sharing what we have learned and eating a delicious heroes’ feast (lasts through Fireseek 27th). Vivian and Hacrar partake as well, and they are quite excited (and a little confused over the food choices). Halfling Airell contacts other plane and asks:
What book are we looking for? Golden claw on the cover.
Which tower is it in? Zagyg’s.
What is the easiest way in? Through the Tower of War.
How do we get past the stairs? Watch where you are stepping.
Where is MK’s sister? Exactly where you saw her last.
Fireseek 22

We set out for the castle. Near the statue of a raven, Arienh spots a small group watching us. They are probably from the Delvers who surround the tower of Magic. The Delvers are elven, professional, wear camo, and clearly have been here a while and know what they are doing. Meanwhile, at the tower of War is a group called the Union of Smiles, aka the Smilers. They are a mix of dwarves and humans, wear flamboyant armor, have brightly colored tents, and a ton more camp followers and kids running around.

We approach the Tower of War and are hailed by a dwarf named Tierbeck. Kellen tells him we are looking for a… recipe book. Thanks to a year of learning to lie, Kellen actually convinces him that’s what we want. Teirbeck also tells us about the Delvers (they are pretentious, their boss is an ass, but they are good to work with) and exploring the Tower of War (found Trolls and Kobalds, recently hit a dead end) as we walk over to the Smiler camp. Barnabus “Barn” Pineson is guarding the Tower (or was it the camp entrance??). He is friendly, but isn’t allowed to let us in and is not budging. He says we can either pay to camp with them or we can go over to Tower Zagyg. He also tells us that the first (and only explored) layers of Tower Zagyg are 1. Lightning stairs, 2. False Crypts, 3. Unending stairs.

Tierbeck takes us over to the Tower of Magic to introduce us to the elves there. The Delver guard messages someone to let them know we are here, and Teirbeck takes off. The elves in this camp look tired, like they have been doing this a long time and are weary, similar to the look the IT crew has had after a long, rough battle. They move like their jobs are rote and joyless, and they have been on edge for a while. Their boss refuses to leave until they have had a success, and no one is happy about it. 14 (?) years is a long time for a camping trip, even for an elf.

Kellen attempts small talk. It is of middling success, but she does learn that they didn’t make it past the 4th level and level 1 is a maze. We start to realize that the guards aren’t keeping the tower safe from intruders as much as keeping their people safe from the Tower. Kellen signs in Thieves’ cant to Mornie “Kill boss?” Mornie replies “Wait.” The rest of us, who also understand thieves’ cant, silently breathe a sigh of relief that Mornie has a cooler head than certain other members of the group…

We are taken to the tent of the warleader whom we hear rolling maps and covering things in the tent before letting us in. His name is Elithadus, and he has face tattoos of mourning and revenge. He is also super rude and sends us out. Halfling Airell asks in elvish, “Who did you lose?” and Elithadus give him a rude brush off. Mornie tries to patch things up, but the Warleader calls her a rude name and we leave.

Kellen asks the Battle leader (?) who is our escort, “Why are you loyal to him?”

He replies that when you have a friend you have fought beside and who has saved your life and that friend makes a bad decision that endangers you it doesn’t mean you forget the history.

We also ask about books and it appears that what books were found in the Tower of Magic were already ruined.

We camp at Zagyg’s tower, Flickr goes to check out the elf camp and takes damage. Thank goodness for the heroes’ feast or Flickr would be dead again. No other incidents occur while we camp.

Session 57. 5/14/2022
Before:

Airell asks Mornie if she has a sister. She looks like someone he grew up with, maybe she should go back to Gradsul and figure that out. Mornie tries to remember. She remembers  a ship's captain negotiating a sale, a soldier in a night's retinue, street urchins. She doesn't have a memory of herself there.

Arienh asks if anyone heard of Birgestos Pyre. Apparently he's been asking a lot of questions about IT crew around Saltmarsh. Hacrar hired him to clear Montana's name and he's been investigating. But then Hacar fired him.

Fireseek 22, 579. Castle Greyhawk. Ruins of Zagyg's tower.
Find a place in the ruins to bed down. The ruin moves in the wind and making popping sounds. Freezing cold rain comes down, it's miserable.

During the night. MK is sleep boxing. Thrahsing and muttering, wisps of smoke come out of her eyes. In her dream she hears screams, after battle slaughter. The sky is red with grey clouds. Naked king stands before MK, with severed arm. MK's army cries of victory. Airell appears, presenting a sword to MK.

Mornie now calls Airell squirt.

We go down the stairs into the dungeon. Batlight is shining for us around 30ft ahead.
There's slow motion lightning bolt illuminating a hallway. static electricity is in the air.
It gets to the end of the hallway, fizzles out for 6s and a new one starts.
Mornie starts looking for trap tiles, MK suggests to also look for things that shoot from the sides. Airell casts Detect Magic.
Arienh sends the bat inside and it gets shot by the lightning.
On the other side of the corridor there's a small landing, and tunnel turns to the right.

Mornie decided to run it. She makes it look easy. MK does a acro dance number and goes through. Arienh misty steps. Kellen barely makes it. Airell has no problem.

We go down another round of stairs. We see more blue light. We do it again and get to the other side without a problem.
Mornie carves "IT" into the wall at the end of the lightning hallway.
We go through 9 of the same stairways. Dropping about 900ft below the ruins. The final one is different. It's 15ft across and there's 3 lightning bolts.
There's an opening at the end of the corridor with large pillars. Kellen shoots the pillar. Nothing happens.
Mornie's safe word is Fuck. She runs through. There's a massive room there. It's dark so she cannot see details. There're 10ft wide pillars. 4 of them in front of them. Ceiling is about 30ft high. She looks around and notices a doorway to the left of her.
While MK is running through Mornie hears some rattling and sees a skeleton.  Mornie invokes the code word. Kellen grabs Airell and teleports.
Another skeleton shows up. MK kills it quick. Airell senses a cloud of necromantic energy.
Kellen goes to look at the door that Mornie spotted. It needs to be pulled out to open. MK does it quick. There's a sarcophagus inside. On the sarcophagus there's a carving of a wizard casting a spell. It's very detailed. One of the hands glows with abjuration magic.
Two more skeletons appear.
Airell takes the ring off a finger of the sarcophagus statue. Three skeletons show up. MK feels that something is suspicious.
A few seconds later a horde of 5 skeletons shows up.
We kill it, open another crypt. There's a bottle of red liquid there.
5+3 skeletons show up.
Kellen grabs the bottle, gets shot by bunch of darts, shrugs it off. MK suggests leaving one of the skeletons alive.
The skeletons crowd people and have range of 0.
Kellen is looking for an exit. There's a door one way, and a slightly more area different way.
We open one more crypt that’s FULL of coins. That cannot be left here. Mornie grabs some big diamonds she found. But we need to take more. Skeletons are coming, but they don’t seem too bad for now. Let’s put some coins in the Hole!

Session 58 5/22/2022

As certain members of the party continue to open doors and scoop up gold, Arienh conjures Elks to soak up some of the damage from the bazillion skeletons that no one else seems to notice over the shiny stuff. Arienh does find a sword on her way to find an exit and alerts Airell. He of course just needs to take a quick look at it. You know, in case it’s important.

He finds a glowing, purple sword. No traps? Great! I’ll just grab it, what could go wrong? Uh, how about the fact that it’s an obviously magical item in a mad wizard’s tower?

Airell grabs it and everything is fine.

Just kidding, he takes a ton of damage of multiple types, can’t get it out of the stone, and suddenly is very glad no one else was in the room where it happened.

The next person to try the sword is MK (who knows nothing of Airell’s experience). Oh cool, a sword! This can replace the one I had to give back to the Duke. I wish I remembered where that one came from… Oh well. And she grabs the sword, yanking it out of the stone. It stings a bit, but look, a sword! Shiny!

Meanwhile, Arienh has found a staircase, Kellen has banished a couple skeleton swarms, and the rest of the group has finally realized that they will in fact die in a pile of undead bones if they don’t get a move on, so all gather in the room before the endless stair.

Final coin tally from the treasure room:

Airell: 61pp, 89gp
Kellen/Hole: 124pp, 186gp
Mornie: 101pp, 139gp
MK: 25pp, 25gp
Arienh: kept everyone alive, not that they noticed

Once all are safe in the room Arienh builds a wall of stone across the entrance so none of the skeletons can get at us as we catch our breath and try to figure out the stairs. After much thinking and experimenting, we figure out the pattern and use Arienh-Owl and levitating-backpack-wearing-Kellen to trigger the right steps (it’s a fibonacci sequence, not that the characters know that term). The rest of the party remains at the top of the stairs out of earring range of Kellen and Arienh. There is no way this will go poorly.

Session 59 6/5/2022
Arienh (in owl form), Airell’s owl familiar, Kellen (in a balloon pack), and Flicker (pulling Kellen) are at the bottom of the Unending Stair.  They go through the doorway into a 30x30 room, which vanishes, becoming the side of a chasm.  They can’t see the other side, and behind them the door has vanished.  Instead is a rocky wall with a 6” ledge running along it.

From the darkness, an arrow strikes Kellen in the chest.  Owl-rienh tests the wall where the door is, revealing an illusion conceals it.  They all head back to the Unending Stair, but not before an arrow strikes Owl-rienh and she loses her wildshape.  As they retreat, they hear a high pitched giggle, different from that of Zagyg.

Kellen sends Flicker back through to investigate.  As soon as the pseudodragon went through the door he is shot by an arrow and plummets to his death.  Flicker died as he lived: being stabbed while on a scouting mission.

Arienh attempts to comfort Kellen, but is as good a therapist as she is a healer.  They walk back up the stairs, reaching the top in two circuits around.

At the top, the rest of the party sees the Old Oeridian glyphs fade and assume they miscounted again.  Instead, Kellen and Arienh returns.  Kellen is crying.  She heads over to a corner to ugly cry for the rest of the day.

The party decides that two hours was enough work for one day and rests (Airell shows off that he can cast Leomund’s Tiny Hut).  Arienh decides that she and MK are going to talk about MK’s dream.  MK has no say in the matter.

MK describes the vivid and completely unforgettable dream that she’s had several times in the past couple of years.  Her standard that she has the defeated king kiss is that of Iuz.  The king likely was one of the many he conquered when Iuz forged his realm north of Nyr Dyv.  It was carved out of a larger, more lawless land known as the Bandit Kingdom.  By the end of the retelling, her eyes were smoking.

(DM Note:  the Bandit Kingdom still exists today, but it’s smaller than before Iuz unified half of it into his kingdom).

Arienh decides to (re)share her vision from last summer:  she stood at the shores of the Nyr Dyv at night, but neither of the moons were present. Iuz towered over her, accompanied by four humanoids.

Arienh has pretty much decided that the demon inside of MK is a piece of Iuz.  MK names it Jimmy.  Arienh and MK are worried that each will try to kill the other in their sleep, forgetting about the past three years where they have (with one notable exception each) been completely loyal to each other and risked their lives multiple times for each other.

Arienh decides to attune to the Sword of the Betrayers.  The next morning, she asks to poke MK to see MK is vulnerable to the damage.  After much debate, MK lets her and Arienh draws an exclamation point in MK’s back.  No effect (other than, ya know, being stabbed).

With that settled, the party heads down the Unending Stair:  Mornie in the portable hole, Kellen & Airell hug it out on a balloon pack pulled by Airell’s owl, and MK & Arienh (grudgingly) sharing a Tenser’s Floating Disk.  This time, thanks to Comprehend Languages, Airell decodes the last part of the runes:

How Much Effort Was Expended Pondering This Message In The Hope That It Was A Helpful Hint?

Mornie (now out of the portable hole) remembers her studies of Iuz: he was last seen marching his army into the depths of this tower.  Only a few survivors managed to escape, and Iuz was never seen again.  She realized that the tower was likely an elaborate trap for Iuz & his army, intended to goad and annoy Iuz into irrational decisions.

Kellen also remembers from her studies that Zagyg was considered the Mad Archmage for, among other things, treating his traps like puzzles.  For example, there’s no good reason to give a hint of the pattern of steps to bypass the Unending Stair but he did with the pattern of how the skeletons appeared.  Maybe there was some hint here with these runes or their location on the stairs.
At the bottom, you see the familiar doorway leading to the illusory 30x30 room.  Airell casts light on a coin and tosses it through.  There is a slight delay before the coin appears on the illusion, but it does give the appearance and sound of bouncing on the floor.

You all decide to test if the chasm is real by having MK stick her head through the doorway and throw a coin with light on it.  As soon as MK goes through the door, she is shot in the shoulder by an arrow.  The force with which MK is knocked back reminds Mornie of her walloping ammo.  Almost like there was this really cool trap involving a 6” ledge over an abyss and walloping ammo being fired at people trying to hold their balance.  But the party is just not that stupid.  Or being paranoid and smart is having the same effect.

MK realizes that the arrow was shot on a flat trajectory, not arced like it would have to be if fired from a great distance.  She starting to think the chasm is an illusion.

You test this theory in various ways, such as having Kellen create an illusion of MK on the other side while Mornie watches (thanks to clairvoyance).  The giggling shooter doesn’t fall for it, seeing through illusory MK.

You toss through a couple more coins, which Mornie observes via clairvoyance.  She sees one coin vanish beneath the “black void of the chasm” after going only 8-10ft.  She then hears the second thrown coin clink and bounce against a floor.

For the life of me, I can’t understand the rationale here so I will merely describe the sequence of events:  Arienh and Kellen decide to run through the door and plummet whatever distance is there.  Kellen polymorphs Arienh into a cave bear and then decides to ride her.  They then order MK to accompany them.  I rescind my previous “not that stupid” assessment.

Bearienh muffs the acrobatics roll and doesn’t so much jump as she falls in the desired direction, plummeting 20ft.  Kellen manages to jump clear, but still faceplants along with MK.

Turns out the room they saw through the doorway was accurately depicted by the illusion.  It’s just that it was 30x30…x30.  The doorway is 20ft in the air, in the NW corner.  The ledge seen in the illusion is also real.  The room has a short corridor leading east and a longer, thinner corridor leading south.  Ten feet over their heads, the illusion of the chasm is visible.

Standing in the room is a Goblin wearing a purple silk suit.  With its shortbow it fires on Bearienh before panicking and hurling a smoke grenade at its feet.  Bearienh charges through the smoke, seeing the goblin painting a passageway into the wall.

The goblin flees through the tunnel, with Bearienh following.  The tunnel is an illusion and Bearienh rams right into the wall.  The damage is enough to kill her form, reverting back.  Bearienh died as she lived:  smashing into stone.

From the other side of the “tunnel” the “goblin” giggles and flips you all off.
While Arienh and Kellen confirm it’s an illusion, Mornie & Airell step through the door and climb down from the ledge.  You all examine the room and find it’s empty but set into the floor in semi-precious aquamarine stone is a triangular teleportation circle.  Kellan and Airell copy this down in case you need to find your way here in the future.

Examining the hallways, you see shapes in the gloom to the east.  As far as you can tell, all rooms down here are dimly lit by a sourceless indirect light.

Airell sends his owl ahead, and finds the hallway opens into a massive 100x40 room.  The shapes are statues all centered around a 40x15 rectangular wooden table.  The statues are arranged as if at a meeting, but their poses and expressions don’t match.  Examining the statues closely, you see they are dressed and equipped like adventurers.  In the corners of the room are strange mechanical orreries made of gold & platinum and inset with precious stones.  You all agree that these are obvious traps…and Kellen thinks it’s gauche to take Zagyg’s stuff.

After much head scratching, you brainstorm things that could turn someone to stone:  cockatrices, basilisks, and beholders come to mind.  MK randomly remembers that there’s a distillation of a plant from the Amedio Jungle to the south that can petrify a person.

Airell sends his owl in for a closer inspection of the statues, when it is pierced by an unseen arrow.  Airell’s owl died as he lived: nameless and finding valuable shit for Airell to steal.

Appearing out of thin air in the meeting room is a large creature with the upper body of a woman and the lower body of a snake.  Her head writhes with tiny snake heads instead of hair and shields an oversized longbow.

Everyone withdraws to the hallway and tries to hide.  You notice one of the double doors in the meeting room is slightly open.  You wait, trying to hear for the creature, but nothing.  Everyone withdraws to the teleportation circle room, except for Airell and Mornie, who keep watch.

It’s at this point that Airell dashes out and steals - I’m sorry, what’s that?  Yeah, like I said, Airell dashes out and. . . really?  Not Airell.  You’re sure about that?  Not Airell.  Really.  Oh for fuck’s sa-

It’s at this point that Mornie dashes out and steals one of the orreries.  As soon as she returns to the hallway, Airell runs out and grabs the other nearest orrery.  They then withdraw to the teleportation circle room with the rest of the party.

Kellen examines one of the orreries and sees the underside is a collection of intricate machinery made of mithril.  The gold, platinum, mithril, and gemstones alone make each worth 2500gp.  But the craftsmanship on them makes them worth so much more.

Mornie contacts Drawmij via the Sending Stone to ask about the orreries.  He replies that these are extremely valuable and not to sell them for the raw materials.  He says he’ll talk to Kellen next time you all sleep.

Once again distracted by the shiny, the party must collect the whole set.  Airell casts invisibility on MK and Mornie, who sneak across the 100ft room to collect the other two orreries in the far corners.  As she crosses the room, Mornie realizes that the door that was slightly ajar is now completely closed…

MK picks up the orrery just in time to be shot in the back by an arrow.  MK died as she - right, not yet.  Poison fizzles harmlessly in the wound, and MK turns to unleash a fuckton of frustration on the creature…and stares right into the creatures eyes, which glow to her like twin suns.

While the rest of the party tallies how many times Arienh can cast Greater Restoration, MK doesn’t let a little thing like possible petrification get in the way of said unleashing of frustration.  With her eyes closed, MK charges up her power axe and carves a handful of chunks out of the creature’s serpentine body.  But the creature’s snake hair lashes back at MK with each strike, constricting her and popping a couple of ribs before MK can fight free.

From the hallway Arienh tries to cast a spell, but she is counterspelled.  The goblin appears behind them, in the teleportation circle room.  Airell runs over to stab the goblin, who uncannily dodges the worst of the attack.

The goblin yelps and flees down the narrow southern hallway, before turning invisible again.  Kellen tries to counterspell but can’t see the little bugger.  But she knows his general direction… She launches a psychic fireball down the hallway, proving that there is no such thing as “Overkill.”  There is only “Open Fire” and “Reload.”

In the chaos, the creature (okay, can I stop being coy and just say medusa?  It’s a medusa.) the medusa, flees away from MK with preternatural speed.  She bursts through the double doors that she came through, leaving the party split three ways fighting two enemies.



Session 60 6/18/2022
The party has both adversaries disappear and leave the company scratching their heads as to their location. Arienh decides to take a closer look at the statues in the hallway (not realizing that MK and Mornie are battling a medusa) and she sees that all of the statues are vestiges of Zagyg. Arienh decides to poke one of the statues with her sword and pokes the goblin instead. It screeches and runs away. Airell whips out his bow, aims, shoots, and hits the goblin. It screeches again, turns back invisible and disappears. Slippery little fella!

MK and Mornie start carefully heading towards the door they think the medusa went down. As they carefully hold their weapons at the ready, the two statues closest to them grab for them and hit them hard with their stone arms. Argh! The statues attack too! Zagyg, you suck! While extricating themselves from the statues and dispatching them, Mornie hears the sound of breaking pottery in the next room.  She whispers to MK, “Hey, I hear broken pottery. Medusa must be in there.” MK whispers back, “Pottery? Really? How do you know the sound of pottery?” Mornie rolls her eyes and they head into the next room filled with…you guessed it…MORE statues.

As they walk in, Mornie pinpoints the area where the medusa is and points it out to MK. MK uses her bow to shoot the medusa. The snake creature snarls and says some words in an unknown language and stone spikes start coming out of the ground. Mornie feels a cold chill go over her and she sees her hands take on a ghostly vestige and she starts floating above the floor. Huh. That’s new. Well, let’s see what I can do with this. She moves toward the medusa and starts shooting. The medusa starts dodging behind some of the statues which makes it hard to hit. Poisoned arrows come rapidly at MK and Mornie, but luckily that hero’s feast takes out the poison effects! Thank you, Arienh!

As if she heard, Arienh decides to head back to where MK and Mornie are, fearing that they are in a bit more trouble than before.

Mornie and MK continue to trade shots with the medusa, but it decides to go invisible again, but not before Mornie notices that it has a ring on one of its fingers that it moves before vanishing from sight. An invisibility ring? Maybe. That would be so helpful!

As the medusa flees from the room, Mornie sees it flash back into visibility and start shooting its arrow at something. She hears the screech of the goblin as the arrows hit their target. They are not friends, but enemies!

MK sees her opening and starts shooting again at the medusa who has been focusing on the goblin. MK and Mornie advance on the medusa, Mornie moving much more slowly in this new form, and they continue to shoot at it.  The medusa unleashes a volley of arrows into Mornie which really hurts! Mornie drops the ghostly vestige to drop to the ground and dash for cover. The medusa disappears again! Looking around, MK and Mornie notice that they are now in a domed chapel with even more statues. Gradually picking their way through the new set, MK is startled to see one of the statues looks just like her mother. “Mornie, it’s my mom! Not my real mom, but my memory mom!”

Mornie looks confused, “Your memory mom?”

 “Yeah, the one from my memories that Drawmij said he didn’t create, but that I somehow have.”

“Oh, right. That one. Well, she looks pissed, and what is that she’s holding?”

“It appears to be a book.”

“Could it be the book we’re looking for?”

“I don’t know. It’s stone!”

Moving back to the other corridor, Airell, Kellen, and Arienh are starting to catch up to MK and Mornie. Airell decides to peek down different halls to see where they lead. He happens upon a corridor that is holding cages like an aviary. All of the cages are full of animals that are strange mashups of different types of animals, e.g. bats that have bird wings. Each cage has a statue in front of it looking at the animal. Maybe these are the familiars of these adventurers? He turns around and heads into the other room where he hears Mornie’s gun going off. He first goes into a room where he sees a bunch of bottles on the wall, he grabs all that are left on one of the shelves and he sees that Arienh is doing the same thing, but on the other side.

Then, Airell slips into a room where he sees the medusa attacking MK with its hair. MK, pissed off now, grapples the medusa and moves it closer to Airell. Airell sees his opportunity for the perfect attack, grabs his sword, and slices off the medusa’s head. Taking some clearing breaths, Airell looks more carefully at the statues and he recognizes a man there that he knew from Greyhawk. I remember him. He said that he was going to this tower, and with Tasha!

The group then takes a moment to drink some healing potions and quickly exchange notes. They decide to put the two statues in the portable hole to deal with later. Airell states that it would probably be a good idea to let his friend be released first because the other statue might be Tasha. Arienh states that she can only do one Greater Restoration right now and that more diamond dust worth 100gp needs to be found.

Airell then asks Mornie if she wants to scout ahead a little. Sure! The two rogues head off south while the rest of the party decides to explore the stairs with the smoke. Splitting the party again!

Kellen, Arienh, and MK go up the stairs where Kellen dispels the smoke. There are lots of webs everywhere, which Arienh and Kellen burn away. They come upon a pool that starts to come alive. One of its water tendrils comes out and Arienh goes, “I don’t think so” and she casts wall of stone. Just as the spells starts to cover the water, Arienh hears that goblin cackle and say, “Uh, uh, uh” and she feels her spell tumble to pieces around her. That goblin must die! An arrow then shoots them from the north and MK volleys back, not hitting the damned goblin. The three of them decide to retreat and go back to Airell and Mornie.

Airell has discovered a hidden door. He casts Clairvoyance to see the other side and then uses his mage hand to pick the lock. It doesn’t budge. Oh right, arcane lock! It’s Zagyg. He then casts “Knock,” and the door opens. Airell sees a glyph on the ground of warning, so he asks MK to throw a statue in there. As MK throws the statue, Kellen gasps out, “But that’s a person…” as the statue is then incinerated into a pile of dust from the Disintegration spell. Airell sees some more glyphs, so he asks MK to instead throw one of the tables in there. The table sets off the wall of force and poison cloud spells, which take ten minutes to dissipate.

Airell then turns around and says, “Well, we have about ten minutes. Need me to identify anything?” Mornie hands him the ring of invisibility.

Session 61. 6/25/2022
In the dungeon we go
Got shot in the face
With arrows of might and high steel
				-MK

Scene 1. Airell and The Wall of Force
It took Airell some sitting around, some cinging, and some Knocking to get into a room with a lot of treasure. Coins, gems, gaudy fancy clothes (in his size!), spell books and the map of the dungeon. It’s signed by Zenopus, who also used to have a tower next to Saltmarsh that blew up some time ago.
Scene 2. Kellen at the Garden Party
Kellen, Arienh and MK find an underground garden with suspicious looking stones. Kellen gets to jump and investigate. She finds that one of the corners comes off, and now she has a small pyramid.
Scene 3. Clues and Portals
Airell remembers seeing an indent in the wall in the same shape. It’s back by landing of the stairs. It fits perfectly and opens a secret door. There’s a pyramid there. Mornie throws a ball bearing at it and the ball bearing disappears. We decided to back away and close the door.
Walking by the statues Mornie and Kellen realize they are illusions. Behind each one of them is a portal to a different place. Nifty way to travel. That’s where all the surprised frozen people came from.

Scene 4. Unexpected Guardian and The Bird
Scouting around Arienh sends an owl down the stairs. The owl meets a djinn. He doesn’t offer 3 wishes. He is Haazir al-Dhaafihn, Faris of the Sirocco Straits and he’s guarding the bottom floor. But he’s nice to Owl, but dick to Bats.
Too bad we need to take the book that way. He says there’s nothing down here but blood and sadness.
Arienh writes him a note in broken Oren (she only speaks Aquan, but it’s close enough?). We learn that the room downstairs is called the Hall of Memory.
Scene 5. Scrolls and Skeletons
Exploring the dungeon some more. 4 shabby guest rooms with spell of Magnificent Mansion on the inside of the door. Really cool, but hard to copy or take.
There’s also a room with major imaged skeletons. There’s some fun with bats and MK’s hair.
Scene 6. Mom Dilemma
There’s a long discussion about MK’s “mom”. Should we unfreeze her now so there’s time to talk and figure things out? Will she attack? What was she doing with the book? Do we need to separate book from her? Or can we put both on the lower floor? Nothing is decided yet.
Scene 7. Drawmij Infodump
He comes to Kellen in a Dream just as he promised. Infodump:
The fancy devices allow to cast Plane Shift to a precise location. You need all 4 of them for it.
MK’s “mom” is indeed Tasha who has messy history with Zagyg.
The book is Demonicon of Iggwilv, Iuz’s mother. That book contains names of demons of the Abyss.
Zenopus is Master Illusionist
Scene 8. Something Clunking Real Loud
At the end of the rest in the Tiny Hut something big, loud and metal starts walking down the corridor from the “don’t go there” section.
Session 62 7/2/2022
As Arienh and Airell swap watches we hear breaking stone then see 3 metal automatons. We prep in the room before Airell drops our protective hut, Arienh tries to wake up Kellen (the only one still sleeping), but she cannot. The automatons start to stack up outside the hut. There are 6 now. Mornie and MK attempt to fight.Mornie sneaks a bunch of ball bearings across the hall which causes falling automatons everywhere giving everyone more openings. MK does a ton of damage but these things are really tough.

Meanwhile Kellen wraps up her convo with Drawmij. He says Tasha is a liar and to be very careful and he wants to talk to Mornie next time we sleep. Kellen wakes up surrounded by enemies and casts a panic spell that doesn’t work.

We are surrounded by even more automatons and things are looking desperate. Morine suddenly has a moment of inspiration and shouts “The cloaks! I’ll get Kellen, Arienh can you get out on your own?” Airell picks up on her meaning immediately and starts weaving through automaton legs to get to MK. As Mornie with Kellen and MK with Airell activate our fancy new cloaks they all dimension door to the top of the stairs down. Arienh misty steps, owls, then flies and dashes. The little goblin prick (aka ?? I can’t find it on the website) shoots Owlrienh and she pops back to herself. Fortunately she is far enough ahead of the automatons that they can’t catch up. Even when ?? stabs her as she runs by.

We all head down the stairs and no one follows. Once again we hear Ha’zal (?) but we know what to expect. Kellen casts nope and banishes him to another dimension. Then she hops in the hole to ensure the banishment is permanent.

This room is covered in murals of Zagyg and his 6 adventuring buddies on their grand tour of the elemental planes. Kellen remembers the stories of their party and Arienh recognizes two of them: Zagyg and Tasha. She looks different in full color than she does in 50 shades of grey stone.

We start to inspect the surrounding rooms.

West - A rowboat sits there in the hall, smells like fresh water farther on.

East - lines of light across the room, Kellen inspects, but we leave it alone.

North - splits into NE and NW

NW - Mornie, Arienh, MK find more paintings of Zagyg and co. These are traveling montages. Chronological history starting at the tavern, the ziggurat, the jungle, fighting a purple worm. Basically a ‘Last time on Z&Co…’

NE - Airell and Kellen. Stained glass windows surround the room, 2 of which are smashed, but the other 5 are Z&Co members. Feather cloak guy is Quaal. All the unbroken windows are watching. No literally, the eyes are moving to follow Airell and Kellen. Also in the room is a floating silver sphere.

Airell uses mage hand to check for anything around the stone. Nothing. Kellen walks up and pokes it. Chaos ensues.

Another Kellen appears and is not friendly. Unfortunately, no one knows which is which. Kellen prime, Mirror Kellen, and Airell fight. Both Kellens can cast spells, mirror Kellen can teleport them both, Airell is very confused, Kellen prime keeps shouting “I’m the real one!” and Airell is less than convinced.

Arienh hears and comes running, followed closely by Mornie and MK. Now we are all confused. After more chaos Kellen prime casts force cage around mirror Kellen who is now permanently trapped there.

At least, we hope it was Kellen prime…

Inspiration: Mornie

Session 63 - 7-16-2022
It has only been three days, and it’s 4:30 in the morning. We supposedly trapped a mirror Kellen, but really are not sure.

Arienh decides to go and check out the broken windows in the floating sphere room. Kellen goes and taps on the cage where mirror Kellen is banging on the cage.  Once she taps, both of them disappear and reappear in another spot in the room.

Airell checks out the Zagyg window and notices how Zagyg appears more malicious than other portrayals of him. Maybe it has to do with the silver sphere?

MK runs forward to grapple and restrain one of the Kellens. She succeeds and the Kellen quickly puts on the armor of Agathys. She then shot two rainbow sharks at MK, and missed. The other Kellen shouts at MK, “What are you doing?” And shoots an eldritch blast at MK and pushes her away. Kellen then tries to pin the other Kellen away - it doesn’t work. Somehow the Kellens teleport again and one ends up in the cage and one outside of it. Arienh sees that the one outside the cage is the evil one and yells to everyone, “That’s the bad one!”

Mornie runs up, whips out the Memory of Ruin, stabs her, and while she gets the impact of the icy armor, steps back and then whips out her gun and shoots. Airell stabbed her, told MK to drag her to the edge of the cage, and then ran to block the entrance. Caged Kellen writes on paper “I AM REAL!”

MK drags the Kellen to the cage and smashes her into the side. She is turned into a bloody pulp. Kellen tells Arienh that the spell will come down in about an hour. Arienh says, “Okay, we will go explore.” Mornie comments, “Maybe you could bag the coins?” Kellen jumps up and puts up the portable hole and starts bagging the coins.

The rest of the crew head over into the final room and see a bunch of portraits on the wall. Airell recognizes the party of seven and Tasha. Mornie realizes that these portraits are the history of the party. The man with the Elven features is Keoghtum, the bald man with long mustache is Heward, the man in loose robes with crazy eyes is Nolzur, and the lanky man in the duster is Murlynd. One of the portraits has the group standing in front of a cracked obelisk with the same markings. There appears to be a tear in reality in the picture. This Rift Valley was the site of an ancient battle that brought about the Age before Ages…it’s before humanity existed. The rift itself was created by the breaking of the rod of law (into seven pieces) which contained the most primordial of magics. Mornie puts together that the company was together for about two decades.

The next set of paintings is about how the company broke up. Keoghtum and Nolzur leave first after having an argument (Tasha is smiling in this one.) Quaal leaves next. Heward left through a portal. Murlynd then leaves through another portal to a dry desert. Tasha left in the middle of the night with a bunch of books. The last painting is Zagyg by himself standing by the free city of Greyhawk. Mornie puts together that this is when Zagyg became the ruler of Greyhawk as there is no guild hall of wizardry.

Arienh hangs back with Kellen and is continuing to check out the glass portraits of the company. She talks to them, but doesn’t get a response, even though the eyes keep following her.

MK checks out all the paintings and notices that Tasha never ages. Mornie examines the portrait of the obelisk and notices that the painting and frame are pristine even though the recessed stone has aged.

MK, Airell, and Mornie go down to the boat area and see a note written “Turn back. There’s nothing for you here!” on the wall. The paint is well preserved. Mornie checks out the boat and it’s pretty rickety. The three of them head up to check out the other rooms.

Mornie sees in one of the rooms a bunch of dioramas, and they are dioramas of the IT Crew! One at the Sahuagin laid, one at Abbey Isle and one of the IT Crew traversing the Endless Stairs. It is all of the armor that we were wearing at the time. One is empty. The cases do have lids and they are not locked. Mornie sees another message “Turn Back! It’s not too late!”

Airell walks into the round room and all of the walls and floor disappear. He starts hearing the words for the “Contact Another Plane” in his mind. He starts casting. MK doesn’t recognize the spell and starts freaking out. Mornie tells her what he’s doing and then says, “Let him finish. Come here. There are dioramas of us!”

Airell is approached by a being that is 12 ft long, with scales, and rainbow wings. It says it can answer some truths. The being is contacting him through his mind.

Mornie contacts Arienh and tells her the situation. Kellen’s cage finally drops and she checks out the body. Arienh had already investigated and took the monocle and gauntlets. They head down to follow up with the rest of the party. They see Airell is talking to someone. Kellen goes into the room with Airell and hears the words “Contact Other Plane” enter her mind.

How many more floors down until we reach the God trap? You cannot reach it from here or further down.
Where are any of Zagyg’s untouched treasures? Further down. Further up. And in other towers.
How do we turn off the automatons? You do not. Unfortunately that are awaiting you.
Is Mornie the woman from my past? Yes.
Does Tasha have a way of teleporting away from us? While she holds the Demonicon, she can fade away to the abyss.

Kellen then apparates in after casting the spell. They realize that the room is a stone platform amidst a void.

The serpent turns and says, “Welcome, Kellen Stumbleduck.” Kellen recognizes the being as the celestial couatl.
What was that thing? It was created from the orb of reversing created by the mirror masters of Lyryn. They were enemies of the Company of Seven.
How do we deliver the book to the God Trap? You must enter the Master’s quarters.
Which floor is it on? The quarters are on their own floor. I think you mean to ask, where it is located? It is the ziggurat. You only need to touch it.
Do we need to unpetrify the woman to finish the quest? Yes
Will she fight us? That is a question for which I cannot give an answer. I can only say that she is a woman of devious nature and you are a band of violent nature. It is likely.

Airell says thank you. The being replies, “It was my absolute pleasure.” It then flies down and disappears into the abyss.

Arienh turns to Mornie, “Do you know Airell from your past?” Mornie looks very confused. “Maybe? I don’t know. Maybe that’s why I call him Squirt?”

Arienh then walks in. Turns out she cannot cast the spell.

MK walks in and Kellen goes with her. Kellen casts the spell again. The being warned her that the Evelore pit does take a toll on the mind.
How do we find the God Trap once we enter the Master’s room? Be careful where you look. Hidden below is something that you may not look at as there is a path.
Once we return the book, what’s going to happen? Will it release something? I believe the Master said that this will remove something that should never have been created. (The book itself.)
Did Tasha use it to create MK? No.
We saw some writings on the wall that said we shouldn’t go a certain way. Should we avoid them? No, they are the most honest things in Zagyg’s tower.
What is the relationship between MK and Tasha? She is her mother.

Turns out the Evelore pit takes a toll more so than the original spell. The couatl tells her that it is a guardian and Zagyg gave it a job and purpose.

It says it can answer one more question for free.

Is there any way to get past the automatons? They are strong, but easily fooled.

It says that it knows every truth in every world. It only knows what is true and what has happened. Its name is Hoapala.

She says goodbye and the spell ends.

Coming back, Kellen relays all the information. The IT Crew realizes they have to get out of the bottom floor.

They hatch the plan to send Mornie up to scout invisibly to find a good spot to create a loud noise. She decides to use her gunshot and powder within one of her bullseye lanterns and then use her sword to yell very loudly. Arienh crawls up in spider shape to ensure that the automatons were out of the area. After quick coordination with their earrings, Mornie sets off the explosion and yells, “Oh shoot!” She runs past the automatons running towards the noise. She opens up the door that leads straight to the ziggurat. All of the team makes it there and together on three they touch the pyramid. They bamf in with their eyes closed and Airell has his familiar looking as they go inside.

They arrive in a clover shaped stone room facing a rectangular pillar of blue stone, and arrive facing the pillar and set into is a six foot tall mirror. Airell’s owl looks at the mirror and feels a sense of vertigo. It then bamfs into the mirror itself and is looking out at the party. A humanoid with pointed ears, claws and scaly purplish skin. Hanging from its chin are multiple snake-like growths. It is standing where the owl originally was. It then attacks Airell.

Inspiration: Kellen

Session 64 - 7-23-2022
We know we are in a room with an enemy but we still cannot open our eyes so we get to fight blind. Yay. We get in a few hits, Arienh takes its head off, and Mornie starts searching the walls. She finds that some walls are smooth as glass and some are rough like stone.
Kellan starts to investigate the central pillar. Something glass is set into it. Morine puts her back to the pillar and opens her eyes to look at the wall. Surprise, she is looking out over Grayhawk! Each wall of this tower looks out from a different direction over the city of Grayhawk. It looks like we are standing at the top of the Guildhall of Wizards. the time seems to be early morning which we think lines up with what time it should be, but we have been underground for a while so no one is totally sure.
Airell feels around the base of the center pillar. There are four pieces of glass, five feet tall by two and a half feet wide, one on each side of the pillar. He finds a tiny groove and button along the bottom. Kellen finds that the glass is very thin. Airell pushes the button and the pillar slowly moves, elongating and thrusting upwards towards the ceiling. The glass is now above our heads and there is just stone where we can reach. Kellen feels a glyph on each side of the pillar.
MK throws Kellen up so hard she hits the sloped ceiling. Why did she toss her up this high? I don't remember. We all examine the glyphs and MK recognizes 2 as abyssal runes.

By now we all have our eyes open. Kellen speaks with dead to talk to the whatever it was that we killed. It is rude to her and knows nothing about the God trap. Zagyg trapped it here and there are many more of them behind the mirrors that are now above our heads. Airell can also see his owl fluttering inside the mirror. It looks like the mirrors each have sigils inside them and anytime a creature sees itself in the mirror it will be swapped out for one of the demons that are currently trapped inside the mirror. If the mirrors get shattered, all of the creatures will come out.
Airell cast comprehend languages and figures out what the runes on the pillar are: Earth cradle (which is in the tower of magic), tower of Zagyg, godtrap, Nehrul’s gate (which is the lowest level of the tower of War). Looks like this is a gateway to those four places.

We wake up Tasha. MK yanks the book away and immediately explodes into her demon form. The book falls open and text begins to write itself on the page. MK collapses and goes back to being MK. Mornie grabs the book and shoves it in the bag of holding. Tasha stops fighting us and instead gives a half smile, saying, “Ius is an idiot.”
Looks like the godtrap was in Grayhawk the whole time.
Kellan talks to Tasha. Tasha says we are about to have company so she casts Mordankinen’s private sanctum. Now we can talk for a little while without all of the Wizards coming after us. MK is checked by Arienh and her body seems fine but very much not occupied. Tasha comments, “I’ve never seen a demon take the person with it before.” After more questioning she tells us that basically the demon part of MK has left and taken the personality that is MK with it.
Tasha needs the demonicon to deal with a little curse that hasn’t let her sleep in what feels like forever. She needs to go to the godtrap to summon Asmodeus and make him break the curse or be trapped there forever. Or so she says. She couldn’t use the endless stairs (for “reasons”) and had to find another way into the tower which is why she ran into the Medusa and got stoned (but not in the fun way).
Asmodeus is the Lord of the 9 Hells and lives in the lowest level. He's the Prince of lies so he and Tasha probably get along great. Probably. Once she is done with the book Tasha will happily give it back. And to sweeten the deal Tasha offers to bind MK’s demon and take the scrying glyphs off of all of our magic items. Wait, what? Looks like Xendros put scrying glyphs on all of the magic items she has given us or that we have bought from her.
We discuss options.
Kellan asks Tasha if she has a daughter. Tasha is confused but says she has no daughter. No “offspring” either. Arienh notices that she hesitates just slightly before saying daughter.
We agreed to the deal. Tasha brings back MK and the demon, binds the demon, and removes the scrying from all of xendros’ items.
As Tasha is using the demonicon to bind MK’s demon, she looks very interested in what she finds in the book. She says that the demon’s name is Rux’Kalmorik. Her story is that she and Rux have a history. Rux tried to kill a demegorgon, fled, and then Tasha helped bind him to a bloody tyrant named Ushem with whom Tasha had a relationship. Ushem was killed around year 540 and Rux moved on to a new host.
Tasha makes a runic circle, MK becomes her demon in it. The demon glares at Tasha, goes quiet, then speaks quietly in a threatening voice. It tries to counter the spell and almost succeeds. Tasha is clearly unnerved by this whole encounter but is grinding through. She is finally successful, sits down, and MK opens her eyes. Tasha says quietly “a year and a day”.
When Tasha is finished with MK she flips through the book some more and starts casting again. Mist forms a circle. She beckons a creature through to her side. It's a demon bound to obey Tasha.
We ask Tasha why MK’s demon took MK with her. (MK meanwhile sits on the floor half asleep and very dazed.) Tasha's explanation is that the demon does not fit inside this shell so it had to fold itself up to fit. The folded part is the personality that is MK. Tasha has no idea why MK has memories of Tasha. The being that is MK apparently has a history with Tasha. MK starts talking about Tasha being her mom while Tasha says she’s not and they just talk past each other. Tasha is flustered - she accidentally told the truth about knowing the demon. Perhaps we should identify MK and maybe Mornie too? Tasha traces the pillar rune and we head to the godtrap.
As we leave Arienh hears a voice in her head. “You know she's going to betray you right? There's no way she's going to let you destroy that book.” It's the demon that Tasha summoned who is speaking to Arienh.
“What can we do?”
“If you banish me, I don't have to resist.”
Thanks demon. Too bad Kellen is out of spells. With that, we teleport away.
We arrive in a 9 sided chamber. Each wall has a 9 sided gemstone on it. They are dark except for a pinprick of light in each gem. We stand on a disc of stone carved with runes. There's a huge statue of Baccus in the middle. On one wall are mechanical tentacles, frozen in place. Tasha gestures at MK who explodes into her demon. Looks like Tasha controls both demons now. We probably should have seen that coming. Tasha says, “for what it's worth, I really am sorry”.

Inspiration: Kellen

Session 65  7/24/2022
Tasha's bold move takes us all by surprise. Except Mornie. Nothing can throw off her groove. As Tasha activates demon MK she starts to fly around the statue of Baccab, speaking words, and starting something happening. The statue starts to glow, the light bulbs start to twitch, and the mechanical arms all come to life. Mornie, who is still invisible, takes a potion of invincibility, and shoots Tasha with a natural 20. Tasha fails the save, but uses a resistance to pass.
Airell tries to earth bind Tasha. She looks at the warden bow and says, “Oh that's where that went”. She restrains Airell with a tentacle. Arienh preps the sword of the betrayers. Kellen attacks MK and pushes her off the ledge. She promptly flies back up. Airell dispells Tasha’s invulnerability and She Is Mad.
Kellen takes a look at the pillar and sees runes of control. Tasha tries and fails to feeble mind Kellen in response. Mornie, still invisible, shoots Tasha again. Arienh hits MK with the sword and it does a ton of damage. Xenopus yells, “Don't kill her!” Where did he come from? We can't seem to get away from him.
Tasha opens a rift in preparation for something, then drops Airell off the cliff. Also, Mornie is a frog now. Kellen takes a bunch of damage from the other demon and goes down. MK casts crown of stars and throws one at Arienh.
The demon kills Kellen and un-frogs Mornie. Tasha looking incredibly frustrated tries to re-frog Mornie and fails. She hits Airell instead. Arienh knocks out demon MK and her flames fade. Tasha casts Giant Headache on Mornie and Arienh. Mornie takes out Tasha with a headshot. The gun yells, “Yipee Kai yay mother fucker!”
There is no blood splatter from Tasha’s body, just clear liquid. Her body turns to mush as it falls over the edge. The runes fade and the robot arms power down. Everything in the room is calm again. Arienh pulls Kellen away from the demon. Airell loots Tasha’s body. Because of course. He has heard of this strange substance before. It's snow. It's a component in Simulacrum. Looks like she's not the real Tasha after all. Airell is pretty sure that it's a rogue similacrum or it's on a mission from Tasha. He finds the demonicon, an empty clam shell necklace, and an amulet. He tries to climb back up to the ledge.
Mornie gets another nat 20 on the demon. Airell shoots the demon. Xenopus tries to levitates Airell 20 feet, but his sword counter spells at and it doesn't work. Thanks for trying, Xenopus. Mornie finally kills the demon.
Xenopus sends Flickr down to Kellen she is over the moon delighted. Oh, also, she is alive again because Arienh revivified her.
Mornie asks what Airell found. He doesn't tell her about the amulet, but shares about the rest. We hear a voice. The statue is now Zagyg instead of Baccab. He talks to Kellen and brings MK down from the mechanical arm where she had been caught. According to Zagyg:
·       This fake Tasha stole the demonicon and wanted to be a real girl.
·       MK’s demon is one of the shards of Iuz.
·       Can we can disentangle MK from the demon? Talk to Bigby
Zagyg takes the demonicon. He also wants his orrery back. And Zenopus wants his clothes back too. Arienh gives MK a healing word and she comes back to consciousness. In her panic at returning she tosses a MoteNote© at Arienh and misses. Zagyg continues to explain stuff:
·       MK is part of Iuz, one of the nine shards.
·       There are currently a number of shards fewer than 9. (Do we know why?)
·       Zagyg’s life work was to break Iuz into nine parts and trap them in the nine gems of the godtrap. Robilar and bigby then let Iuz out to kill him instead of just trapping him. Which apparently worked just great.
·       Everything Tasha said was a lie except that MK is the fold of Iuz’s shard cramming itself into a person shaped shell.
·       MK is not Iuz, but Iuz is in there. Destroy the shell in the spirit will be released but MK will unravel. If MK dies, Iuz gets the shard back.
·       What is Xendros’ connection to MK? Is it just because of Iuz or is there more? He replies that we should ask Xendros.
·       The obelisks contain pieces of the tears in reality. The rods of law were built around the tears to contain them. Someone has been trying to break the obelisks. The scarlet brotherhood is an intermediary for this entity.
·       Have Airell ask Edda why Grazzt’s timeline doesn't line up.
·       Ask Bigby why the circle was killed.
·       Xendros is working for her master.
·       The scarlet brotherhood is trying to make up for some recent loss of prestige. There might be an opening there for us.
·       If all the obilesks are broken, reality ends.
·       The first gods created the obelisks. They keep the rifts from getting bigger.
·       Why is Gerrika still a body when MK is also that body? Ask Drawmij.
·       MK is her own person, bur some of her memories are Iuz’s. There are others like her for whom this process (of getting a shard?) did not go so well.
Now that Zagyg is potentially Kellen’s next patron, her objective now is to do something about the grimoire of the deep. Eventually Kellen will replace Xenopus here in the tower. Apparently some forces have come through Nehrul’s gate looking for something and someone is keeping the elves busy. Kellen is suddenly not sure that she wants this deal. But eventually she ends up taking it. Kellen receives an amulet with her Pearl eye in it.
About this time a crystal dragon ridden by the head of the hall of wizardry arrives. Zagyg says you aren't necessary everything is handled here please give Kellen a membership to the hall of wizardry K thanks bye.
The wizard magics us back to the front hall of wizardry and we are free to head back to our Greyhawk homes with Hacrar and whatshername. It has only been a few days, but it feels like we have been gone for months…
Inspiration: Mornie
Session 66 8/20/2022
Dream-o-phone. Drawmij and Mornie. Under the sea. Mornie catches him up on the last year. He is surprised about Tasha being Yggwilv. He’s upset he couldn’t get the orrery. D says it explains some things about Tasha. M’s sanctum is in Yatil mountain near Perrenland. D got teleported there  right before he died. Tasha operated from Perrenland for over a century.
D found Bidgy’s location. He is in Scant. (Arienh also saw that). B is paranoid. Don’t mention D’s name until later. Tell him D wants a word with him, pick a neutral ground. B is more cunning than talented. D doesn’t like him very much. B didn’t like making clones, this is still his original body. Powerful dispel magic ends simulacrums.All of D’s clones were destroyed.

Drawmij and MK. MK requests volcano for the ambiance. Drawmij tells her about the Sea of Dust. MK tells him about her family, and remembering Tasha. She asks why there’s a body of her buried.
Drawmij said MK is not their family. D asks if she knows about Clone spell. She doesn’t. One of the components is the chamber for the body to grow, another is cubic inch of flesh. Nenredhe takes a piece of flesh from the recently dead, and D makes a clone. MK was an experiment to put in more memories than a person could hold at any given time, so the shell could use many skills without having to be trained. But when they were doing it, the demon decided to inhabit the body. MK drops Iuz name. D says it explains a lot of things.
MK asks if body’s sister was also cloned. - Yes.
D says he’ll do more research on shards of Iuz.
Don’t tell Xandão’s about Iuz - she’ll probably cut you open
Mornie gets a sending next day - MK needs more hugs :D
Most awkward hugs ever


Readiying 14th.
Airell received a letter from a friend. He mentions that he’s going to leave. Kellen gives him her talisman.
Someone approaches Mornie and tells her Airell is in trouble. Head of the thieves gild sent him. He takes her to his house. Kellen and Arienh are in the library. An elf woman approaches. He waits, then clears he throat. Gets them to the same places.
His mansion is gaudy. It’s weirdly empty. He offers wine.

Tells IT Crew that Airell impersonated both bishop candidates and put them in humiliating circumstances. Both of these candidates knew it was him. Anatole sought penance for his sins. Shouldrelin waited until we were closer to Growfest to capture Airell and torture him into confessing. Airell was rerouted from the capture and is coming to his house.

Burgestos was retained by Hacrar to clear the name of Airell. During B’s investigation, he found out that Montana Smith also went by Airell.

He explains what Airell has been doing. He mentions that the songs of the Boarder’s Three includes the descriptions of the IT Crew.

He wants to know about what really happened. We explain about the Warden of the Fore and the Rakshasa. He doesn’t recognize any of that. He asks to wait. He leaves for an hour. Arienh tries to sending stone to him, no reply.
Arienh casts augury to ask if we should try peaceful resolution. MK arrives at this time.
Kellen investigated the room out of boredom. There are books, mostly history, one is hollow and there’s gold inside. Kellen leaves a note there.
After an hour Airell arrives. With couple of people, including Bergestos Pyre.
Ord asks us to leave the city for a year. Bergestos agreed to recant his information to the church and calm everyone down. The new bishop will not be interested on pursuing this in a year. He will set us up with the ship to leave town in a week.
Scant! It will take about a month.
Once Hacrar hears about this he is furious.
Arienh calls a meeting. She figured stuff out. Obelisks, undoing humanity, bad stuff. We need to protect them.
Iuz is in 9 pieces. He has 3 on his body, and there are 4 more around in Arienh’s vision. We don’t know where Iuz is.

Arienh scried on Harrid, he’s still mucusy floating in shit water waiting for something.
Arienh scried on MK’s “sister”. She’s in the Styes. She’s on the docks observing a ship being loaded up with gunpowder. She’s giving orders.
Talking to irrik.
First thing - he draws his sword and swings at Arienh. He calms down seeing he’s safe. We tell him it has been a year. MK asks how he got petrified. They were exploring tower of war. Didn’t get anywhere. Got to third level. During the winter Tasha approached him and offered to fund the next expedition. They found hidden entrance in the tower of war from a building next to it. Tasha knew about it. It took them down low in the tower of war, next to one of the portals that we’ve seen. It was occupied by scrawny dwarves. Arienh seen those dwarves with Xendros. He also describes a woman with snake body and many arms. He wants to go back rescue his crew.
He has a scroll that Tasha couldn’t use. It’s Word of Recall. Some place over the Azure Sea, burnt circle holy to a few of the god, surrounded by nothing but trouble. It’s in the brotherhood, it’s holly to Aledemara. North Eastern part of the peninsula. The land is burned. Scarlet Brotherhood tried to destroy it, but couldn’t.
Mornie says we cannot mimic Brotherhood. We can have a contact in Kro Terlep
Arienh wants to know more about some obelisk thing. Guy drinks more drinks and tells a crazy story. 13 years ago, capital was destroyed and everything around. Survivors were catatonic, died of starvation after. Survivors told stories of cities filled with ghosts and the dead. 500 men went there. Ruxis was gone - not destroyed. Top soil was gone too. There’s nothing left. That night, everyone had the same nightmare: drowning alone in a dark ocean. They were being pulled “beyond,” not down. The thing that pulled me was an expansive “nothingness.” I was wandering in my sleep, so i was miles away from where i went to bed. I ran for it and kept running. Third of us found each other that night. Then we found more wandering the lands after. The rest were gone. Only two, three others saw what i saw. Others remember ruins, destroyed landscape, ghouls and ghosts. When challenged, those other men became violent about their memories. Now he wants to travel west.

Contact Other Planes.
Airell and Eda share some wine on the boat.
She says Mornie was very close to stepping into something. It’s the empty room next to dioramas.

Why doesn’t Graz’zt timeline add up. - There’s no time for Graz’zt.
How many shards does Iuz have - 3.
Where exactly is the spindrift obelisk - look for fire watch island.
What colors align with what attributes - ask Arienh about the four humors.
Who in the circle of 8 are still alive - Drawmij, Bigby, and Mordenkainen.

Tenser, Otiluke, and Rigby are dead.

How to approach Bigby? Through his friends.

Mornie contacts Sorrel to have the ship meet us at Scant. Sorrel says, “Oh, that should only take us about three weeks once we set sail. Looking to leave at the start of Coldeven. We’ll want to stay in Scant a little longer to trade since we’re not heading to Greyhawk.” This means they’ll be at Scant in the middle of Coldeven.

We’re booked on a merchant vessel called the Silkworm. It takes 24 days. Arrive on Coldeven 15. Comfortable lifestyle for 2 weeks in Coldeven for free.
On the second day it begins to rain, continues to rain for 8 days. Arienh is the weather channel. We spent a day and a half in Hardby. Airell finds his bonnet. On the first night from Safetown it’s new moon. We’re all sharing captains quarters. Arienh is scrying on Xendros. Small room, she’s sitting on a cot, flipping through a book. It’s porn. She’s not wearing armor. Loud noise through a window, people cheering behind the door. She’s at an inn. She gets out of the door and goes upstairs. On the top there’s a peaked roof. There’s a door that she knocks on. Man’s voice tells her to enter. It’s complete darkness in there. Arienh just hears the voices. Man: Hail the conquering hero. (Sarcasm) Xendros: I need more resources. Man: It’s been a year, are you incapable of handling a few elves? Xendros: Elves are not the problem, entire place is a death trap. Man: Excuses. Curses on Iuz. Xendros: Mentions his name Baedron, he was blessed with a piece of divinity. She threatens to tell her master that The Four are hindering her master’s servants. She asks if he things Agdranal would do better.
He says he will speak with the others, she will have what she needs, but the four will not tolerate another failure. She speaks a word and light flashes from her holy symbol. Arienh sees Waldorf.
He says I had an interesting conversation with the head of the thieves guild.
It looked like Xendros knew Arienh was scrying.

Airell recommends alerting the thieves guild. Kellen with Dream it.

Baedrin - the butcher of veluna. (Veluna is theocracy of the church of Rao). He is a wizard from there and was very interested in perfecting the human form. Attacking villages, raiding cities, abducting people.
He says Kellen can show up in his dreams anytime. They do a bit of dream tourism, he gets some information from her, but nothing too secret.

Inspiration - Arienh

Session 67 8/27/2022
Kellen updates her talisman and gives it back to Airell. It now has the ability to cast invisibility on three people.

Kellen is working on the reverse ritual. She doesn’t succeed and has a very bad episode, but she crawls out of the room somewhat okay.

Afternoon of Coldeven 15th

We pull into Scant. Turns out that MK lost 50 gp trying to gamble with the crew. Mornie realizes she should comfort her and gives MK a hug. Mornie is getting better at being convincing.

Airell asks the captain where to stay. He gives a selection of places. We look at the Golden Turnip and the Sleepy Otter. The Golden Turnip is 2 gp per room. We go check out the Sleepy Otter. We spend 35gp for a week and it includes food. (We re-roll 1s and 2s for hit dice while we are staying here.) Mornie stays up in the room while the rest of the crew go downstairs for dinner.

Kellen chats up the local people and finds out the following.
Szek - the title of the king
Seaguard - the standing army and they guard the lighthouse
People get arrested if they try to go into the lighthouse. The Sun Keep is in front of the lighthouse.
Bigby is in the lighthouse…as least we think so.

Arienh turns into a seagull and starts exploring outside.

Mornie and Airell ask around to find her contact. Suggested place: The Sturdy Spruce. Turns out it is right across from the Golden Turnip. They go ahead and start scouting out the area. Long line to the place with some very “interesting” bouncers. It’s obvious that hanging out in the line will be a very, very long wait (couple of hours).

The crew notices as a whole that there are a lot of Oridians and Selouise, but they are not intermixing. Mornie picks up that there is a lot of hostility between the groups; a lot of tension. There are other races (mainly dwarves and gnomes), but the hostility is between the humans. Airell and Mornie only see one group of halflings leave the Golden Turnip the entire night.

Kellen finds out that there are rumors that the Selouise are going to be purged by the Szek from the city and all of Onwall. These rumors started about a year ago: they would be ousted and “put to the sword.” One of the guys said that something was happening, but there really wasn’t any evidence of this.

There are two back entrances (kitchen and performer entrance) to the Sturdy Spruce, exterior stairs to a second story, and windows are all along the second story (potentially living chambers).

Airell scouts out the area the next morning (roaming the docks and going across the bridge.) Finds out that there are three thieves guilds.

Mornie checks out the Sturdy Spruce and sees it fully shut down. Turns out there is a half-orc female who lives on the second door. The people who run the establishment are obviously living there.

Kellen checks out the university. Wants to find blueprints of the architecture of the lighthouse. She’s able to get a library card and see the layout of the lighthouse. It’s a very interesting layout. Turns out the light is a magical crystal that bounces light off of mirrors. After talking to the students, Kellen hears that Bigby has not left the lighthouse in months. Turns out Bigby has a relationship with the Szek (appears to be quite strained). He is quite rude to the Szek, but is still allowed to be at the lighthouse. Bigby is tasked to find out the truth behind the rumors behind the Selouise being kicked out by the Szek.

Arienh goes to the harbor and scouts out the island by turning into a shark. She sees that there is a lot of water traffic going in and out of Scant. The area by the lighthouse is quite precarious. Lots of rocks and sheer cliffs. There are a number of shipwrecks everywhere, including one that just went down yesterday in the storm.

Everyone meets up at dinner and then heads to the Sturdy Spruce. We have to give up our weapons before entering and cannot touch any of the patrons or performers. The inside looks like we are inside a forest grove. It’s now extremely obvious that this establishment is run by orcs and half-orcs. Nazzer is the waiter for our table. The “ale” is actually pineneedle whiskey. It’s a bit poisonous….ugh. The music is good, but the drink is horrid.

We get through two shows and Mornie makes an earring call to Aelar. Gives him the phrase and asks him to meet with her. He tells her how much he normally goes for so that she can plan. When it’s Aelar’s turn, he comes out on the stage and the crowd goes wild. Through a very seductive and well-played scene the crew pays for Aelar and the Aurocs.  Aelar joins the crew for dinner in one of the separate booths.

We find. Out that Nenredhe is here and having Aelar working for her. He is gathering intelligence. The rumors about the Szek are all being done by her.

Bigby leaves the lighthouse once a month, and only to talk to the Szek. Beach at. Hepmonoland to go straight to the Spindrift. Isles. Two ways to infiltrate: Attempt to be a defector or pose as merchants. A contact in the Offices of Soverignty. Our group is going to raise suspicions.  We can go in with “”an item that we want to sell.”   He said that we would need to give him 800 gold. Mornie hands him a pearl.

Check in with Aelar on Freeday. He will look into Bigby and let them know.. We can go straight to the head of the line on Freeday.

Two days later, Mornie gets a sending from the Falling Star. Sorrel. Says that they are going to be arriving the afternoon of the next day.  She will call me. We plan to meet on the 19th.

Kellen goes to the Sun Keep under disguise and give them a letter to give to Bigby. She. Wrote in the letter that she’s a big fan and that she might have something to show. Him.

Sending from Drawmij: meet me at the Sturdy Spruce four hours after sunset. Urgent and sensitive. Be discreet and leave the attention getters behind.

Arienh, Mornie, and Airell go. The bouncer lets us in directly. The scene is much different - lots of drunks and passed out people. Crazy, crazy night. Drawmij comes up, but it’s definitely a different clone again. He gives us mugs of the awful ale and didn’t realize how bad it was.  The beer was extra syrupy.

Drawmij and Mornie realized that they were brought there by someone else. Arienh noticed that the barkeep dashed out of there. Drawmij swayed and someone took over his body. He then says, “Turn away, Nenredhe’s creatures, this does not concern you.”



Session 68 - 9/18/2022
Kellen buys Airell a rapier. Though technically Airell already had the money from the shipwreck expedition. :)

On the 17th, Kellen put in the offer for the rapier. She went on an escape that evening. Very, very mute about what she did. There are strange reports about a beast who attacked the manor.

Airell and Arienh “explored” the sunken ship. There are stories about “something” being out in the water. Maybe that “something” originally sank the ship. Both of them came back with loads of cash. Kellen is debating on making a device that sorts coins. She’s sure that banks would LOVE that.

Kellen cleans up some papers that they found. The letters are written in Selouise, but the ink has been very smeared. It appears to be a cypher. MK gets some inspiration and starts figuring out the cypher. She cannot put anything concrete together because it’s so blurry, but she does put together that these are very secret documents and are talking about special shipments. The letters are layers, upon layers of secrecy.

*******
Continuation of the 19th

Arienh says, “Bigby, we just want to talk to you. We do not like Nenredhe. We are just here to talk to give you a message.”

Airell runs off after the half-orc who disappeared.

Bigby says, “Well, if you are not with Nenredhe, then we will not have a problem. I will be talking to Drawmij.” He then casts mistystep and disappears.

Airell comes around the corner and sees the bartender stop and Drawmij is there in the alley. Drawmij casts Dimension Door and disappears. The bartender continues to run and Airell takes off again.

Mornie runs after Airell.

Arienh goes up to the waiter and says that they need to talk to Aelar. Where is he? He responds, “What the hell just happened?” Arienh explains about Bigby just showing up. She also tries to find out what happened with Aelar, but it turns out that he called in sick.

Mornie catches up and helps up Airell after he gets hit and then Airell molds the earth to trip the half-orc. The half-orc trips hard into the sailors. Mornie is able to grapple the half-orc on the ground. The half-orc tells us that Aelar told him to spike the drinks. Turns out the syrup was knocking people out instead of “loosening” them up. Turns out Aelar goes to the university a lot. After scaring him more, they let him go. He bolts.

Arienh walks out with the weapons and meets up with them in the streets. She gets some strange looks carrying all of Mornie’s and Airell’s gear.

After meeting up with Kellen and MK, Kellen realizes that Bigby used “Magic jar.” Mornie tried to contact Drawmij, but it was like getting a busy signal. He’s probably in the Bigby’s tower. Hopefully talking with Bigby.

When they get to the room, someone is in there. Turns out it is Aerie. Who has a working arm now, that glitters. She wants the IT Crew’s help to kill Nenredhe. Um…. She’s working with Bigby now.  IT Crew is very suspicious of her motives. It’s normal to hate Nenredhe…but kill her?

Turns out Nenredhe wants to have Bigby and Drawmij kill each other, and for us to die in the process. Aerie is obviously playing both sides. She was able to befriend Bigby, which is something Kellen was very interested in. Aelar did tell Nenredhe immediately when Mornie contacted him. Nenredhe is aware that we are still working for Drawmij (she put it together from the Kraken conflict in Port Tolie.)

Nenredhe wants both out of the picture because she wants to be the one in power. She’s upset that Drawmij relocated the manor out of the Sea Princes. Drawmij changed up the use of the spies, which made Nenredhe upset. Her recent spies (shells) are completely under her control. They are actually dead bodies with souls that Nenredhe put in and they have vestiges of their actual memories. They are not the clones (like MK and her sister.) Aerie cannot lie to Nenredhe, so we have to go tonight because she’s supposed to report to her tomorrow.

Bad news - a storm is coming in.

Arienh casts walk-walk on Kellen and water breathing on everyone. While Kellen walks, the rest swim. Airell and Arienh get tossed about as the waves are increasing in their intensity.

Once the IT Crew gets to the other side, they use the balloon packs to clear the cliffs. Arienh uses her thornwhip to get them to walk at the top.

Aerie walked into the lighthouse with no problem. She’s waiting for the IT Crew to arrive so that she can let them in. When they arrive, Arienh reminds her that she should let Bigby know.

During Kellen’s speech, the crew gets spotted and the alarm is called. They run inside with Aerie and she leads them into a circular room behind a hidden door. Two armored figures pop out of the water and Aerie calls them “Hershey” and “Kit-kat.” They stop when she says hello to them. They appear to be elementals. Kellen and Arienh know them as Elemental Myrmidons. The It Crew hangs back and waits. Bigby then shows up by apparating down the stairs. He’s kind of creepy looking. Obviously does not get out much.

“Aerie? What are you doing here?”

“I brought the IT Crew to kill Nenredhe.”

“Your timing is very suspicious. You even brought one of Nenredhe’s people.”

Mornie replies, “I already told you I’m not hers anymore.” He looks shocked at that and then looks at MK.

Bigby is visibly disturbed seeing MK. “You, what is your name?”

“Gerrike.” Bigby takes off his glove and shows it at MK.

“Does this mean anything to you?” He holds up his hand and everyone notices that he has multiple scars on his hand and that it’s the same as the binding runes on MK.

It comes out that Bigby has been looking for MK for 16 years…really, he’s been looking for the shard of Iuz.

Bigby tells them all to follow. He runs up the stairs and then fades from view.

They enter another room with a big table. Bigby is dropping some of his suspicion and is questioning MK.

It comes out that MK and Bigby each have shards and that both of their shards are closer in nature. Bigby has met all six other shards.

Bigby tells the story of Rigby and Robelar wanting to kill Iuz. They let the shards out. Tenser gave the sword to Bigby and let him know that he’s a descendant of one of the betrayers of Iuz.

Each shard has a bit of Iuz’s conscience, along with the desire to dominate. When Grazz’t tried to kill Iuz, he split him in two.

Tenser tried to get Rigby and Roebellar to stop. After fighting the shards and Rigby and Roebellar, Rigby called on his god to snuff out Bigby. Bigby died, but then the shard entered his body along with all of Bigby’s memories.

Bigby shared that the person “Gerrike” is gone. Instead MK is the shard of Iuz presenting to be “Gerrike.”

Each of the shards wants to win. When they lost the battle, they ran and settled into the body of one of the betrayers. That’s why Iuz wants to kill off the betrayers. The two shards in Bigby and MK actually “are” the shards, and not the people containing the shards.

Bigby has “the strength of Iuz” as his shard and MK is “the memory of Iuz.”

We share that we have met Baedron, who carries a shard. Iuz has the other three shards “sight, anima, and guile.” Ogdrannal has “spite.” Mornie remembers about a warlord called Ogdrannal in the bright desert about twenty years ago. Baedron is “forethought.” Rel Hjalnar “fury” and Towren “prudence” (archdruid of the crystal mist mountains) have the other two shards. Venerandris used to contain the shard that is now in MK.

The obelisks are the rods of law. Iuz was trying to use the rods to weld himself back together. Zagyg was able to trick him into his God Trap, which is why he originally failed. There are obelisks that are cracked. The one at the Spindrift Isles is cracked which is how the Grimroire was created.

Arienh does know that one of the current shards is in her family as she is a descendant of one of the betrayers.

Bigby starts telling about what happened at the Circle of Eight. Rary of Ket along with Reboellar killed them all. Rary disintegrated Mordenkanin. Reboellar beheaded Otto. Drawmij was fleeing upstairs. Tenser and Bigby fled down the stairs to the areas where he knew there were transportation spells. Tenser fought Reboellar off so that Bigby could leave. Rary and Reboellar are in the bright desert. (Problem: we heard that Rary is dead.)

Turns out the six shards worked together to go against the three that are in Iuz. This was surprising to Iuz.

Bigby did talk to the “creature of truth” and it said to trust the blond warrior woman.

We notice that Airie disappeared and Mornie sees Nenredhe come with a bunch of people.

Airie attacks Mornie. “I do hate Nenredhe, but I hate you more.”

Inspiration: MK

Session 69 - 10/16/2022
We are confronted with Nenredhe and friends. Eri has stabbed Mornie and run off. Bigby freaks out, threatens Nenredhe, and time warps a bunch of spells. Including a giant fireball that deals 72 damage to everyone but the rogues.  We might be headed for a TPK.

Arienh fire walls, Bigby hits her with magic missile, firewall drops. Eri shanks Mornie. More destruction and pain. Lots of people looking pretty hurt.

MK tries to convince Bigby that we are friends and rolls a nat 20..

Kellen does an Ironman transformation, gets bigger, and gets covered in metal armor with a blue visor.

Airell is on fire from the helm guy, but ignores the pain and lets it burn, instead stabbing Nenredhe, pinning her tongue to her face and ending her annoying existence.

More attacking and stabbing.

The angel kills Bigby and the demon shard escapes. The tower tardis room that Bigby had made in the lighthouse begins to disappear {{fix}. Mornie ghosts into the wall, Arienh clings to the outside, Kellen tries to break down the tower wall,  but fails and grabs the body of Bigby, MK grabs the angel and uses it to smash the wall. This starts to crack the tower. Airell grabs Nenredhe and prepares to dimension door down to the ocean.

As the tower begins to crumble, Airell dimension doors. Arienh starts to fall and Mech-Kellen grabs her. Arienh takes rock fall damage and goes unconscious.

As the lighthouse crumbles into the sea, a huge red demon form explodes from it, a 60ft. creature wreathed in fire.  The ocean around is illuminated in pulsing red light. The Strength of Iuz made manifest. From another direction we see the angel flying with MK clinging on. The angel pulls her up and heals her.

The angel say, “Rise and fight.. For 7 breaths we have a chance to destroy the shard.”

Mornie casts healing word from the ring to bring Arienh back to conscience. She then drops down across from Iuz and shoots him and misses.


We are all frightened of Iuz except the angel who carries MK to Iuz.  Arienh heals. MK attacks Iuz.

Iuz attacks Arienh who falls, her focus necklace shattered. We notice Iuz’s shadow (it is the deep shadow of nothingness from Airenh’s vision) starting to stream away to the north-west.

Kellen thinks “This is gonna hurt”, chugs a potion, and drops. She hits the ground and casts resilient sphere on Arienh who is now in a safe space. Surrounded by iridescent sharks.

Mornie and MK do some damage. The angel dies.

Iuz tries to sledgehammer Arienh but is foiled by the shiny hamster ball.

Airell tries to get closer and shoots Iuz with the bow.

Iuz dispels the hamster ball and moves close to the ground.. More of him flows away.

Kellen casts mental prison. Only does damage.

Mornie hits Iuz with the MOR and realizes Iuz is a titan! She gets some cool immunities for the rest of the battle.

Airell casts haste and tries to climb up the cliff to get to us.

MK hits more. Arienh is pushed back and once more can do nothing on her turn.

Iuz moves and Mornie and Arienh get to try to hit him. Arienh finally gets to use the sword and does 84 damage before collapsing beneath the weight of Iuz’s sword as she goes unconscious.

Airell heals Arienh and she promptly gets knocked out again.

Airell sneak attacks with a nat 20.

Mornie heals Arienh and dimension doors her away then starts to run back to Iuz.

Iuz tries to cast a fire pillar spell but Kellen counter spells it. Iuz is starting to look withered and in pain.

MK goes down and Arienh brings her back up. She goes demon MK. Tries to disintegrate Iuz but it fails.

Arienh magic missiles Iuz.

Airell nat 20s again, cast spiritual weapon and preps his bow.

Iuz comes closer (he is struggling to move, looking rough). He hits Mornie and she shoots back. Airell shoots too. Arienh gets hit and goes out again..

Mornie does her best to draw Iuz away but he doesn’t take the bait.

Iuz hit Arienh again and she auto fails two death saves. And then he hits again and she is quite dead.


He goes for MK next and casts power word save. She is wracked with pain. The IT team sees the shard dissolve into black smoke and move toward the north east. MK gains two levels of exhaustion. MK finally overcomes the spell. But is unconscious.

Mornie has a minor panic attack: “How does this thing work!?” And uses the ring to cast revivify on Arienh.

The guards have obviously noticed the lighthouse fall and the giant demon being. They are starting to head our way.

Mornie realizes that Iuz is a titan and she should have prepped the ritual to unlock the sword. “We should go find dragon. I know! The dragon Turtle! That Airell needs!”

Arienh “What the @%#%%??”

Inspiration: Arienh and MK

Hey…where’s Drawmij?



Session 70 - 10/30/2022
Three miles off the coast of Scant
Just five days in our quest,
We shattered a majestic lighthouse
And flew on owls due west.

We flew on owls dodging spears
And through the pouring rain.
We made a tiny hidden hut
And tended to our pain.

Jim Ward got out too, although
He had to use a clone.
He’s safely back on board Sea Cow
Confused and all alone.

We clued him in that, yes, it was
Our big demonic fight.
We tried to save him, but alas,
We could not reunite.

“I’ll dream of Airell” he professed,
“Please visit with me there.”
And then Airell went back to bed
To snore without a care.

Airell is dreaming he is back
In Saltmarsh cozy muck
When Drawmij visits him and says,
“I’m here, now what the f–k!”

Airell tells Drawmij everything -
That Bigby was betrayed
By Notredhead and her small crew
And perished by their blade.

When Bigby died he let the shard
Unfold into a beast.
We fought our best, but we could not
Contain it in the least.

“Bleak Hand and Searing hand -
Those are the guys you fought”
Said Drawmij as he paced the dream
And muttering his thoughts.

Bigby must have thought that
Drawmij came to kill him off,
So he imprisoned Drawmij
In a scary mental trough.

Jim thought the circle of
Eight was killed by Bigby’s hand
For reasons strange and secretive
He did not understand.

But maybe it was Moderncanine
Who is the only one
That walked away from massacre
Before the night was done.

MC is powerful and he
Taught everyone to clone
Their bodies and their souls
Into new flesh and bone.

Waldorf is another shard
And maybe Ardenal,
Or maybe they’re just a-holes
With a magic arsenal.

Airell kept quiet about MK,
That she’s another shard.
We’re still not sure about Drawmij
To let down our guard.

Airenh is dreaming of Iuz,
Like most nights she endures.
He’s growing stronger every day
With each shard he secures.

Engulfed in yellow flame
Mah’Kaylah stands beside
As Arienh is not too sure
If she had turned the tide.

Mah’Kaylah could still be a friend,
Or she could be her foe.
It’s hard to tell it from her face
Engulfed in yellow glow.

Suddenly, she grabs her ear
And turns away from us,
Mornie hears Sorell speak
Who’s trying not to cuss.

She sounds scared and confused,
She rounded up the men.
They’re ready to set sail North
and meet with us again.

“Be there by 4pm,
That’s in the afternoon,”
Mornie informs her captain
That we will meet up soon.

She hears another magic ping,
And this one is from JIm.
He tells her to use secret phrase
If things are looking grim.

Notredhead doesn’t have a clone.
She must be dead for good.
Airell retrieved her body before
It became sharks’ food.

Airell avoided all the sharks
And cut her head off clean.
He swam back through a fleet of ships
Without being seen.

Disguising as a navy seal
He really pushed his luck.
But it’s Airell we talking here,
And he don’t give a f–k!

As we approached the city walls,
We met some folks who fled
From Scant with all their stuff,
And this is what they said:

“The city was attacked last night,
Oh, you should turn around.
The sea guard battled a huge demon
And put it to the ground.

“But who knows what else might
Be lurking in these city walls.
I, for one, am not staying
Despite my big brass balls.”

We brought Notredhead back to life
Cheating just a little bit.
You see, it turned out that Kellen
Did not have a spell that fit.

Notredhead did not know about
The shard that Bigby had inside.
She simply did not like him much
And that is how he died.

She told us nothing much
Before our questions lapsed,
And so our plan to get some info
Pretty much collapsed.

Although, we learned one thing -
One thing because she lied.
She doesn’t have Crow’s Turnip contacts.
High insight’s on our side.

The angel that she brought along
Knew all about the shard.
He is a planetar from plane unknown,
Who went an extra yard.

A heart-to-heart at last!
Airell and Mornie discuss their past.
She was an older member of a gang,
Who graduated fast

Into a gang of older kids
And moved out from Airell.
He stayed behind to become
The leader of his cell.

He had his aspirations, dreams,
Until he was betrayed.
Airell had to get out somehow,
And so his debt was paid.

She pulled out gold star emerald
And held it in her hands,
Arienh has started scrying
To see where turtle stands.

The dragon turtle was among
The merchant ships flotilla,
Attacking them with stream of flame -
A total badass killa.

The merchants perished by its flame
Have taught us all that Quen
Can turn into a freaking dragon
Consuming sailing men.

This can’t be good, oh no, it can’t,
His name is Golden Death.
I guess we’ll have to fight him soon,
But first to catch our breath!

We make it safely to our ship,
The Falling Star awaited.
We haven’t been here in so long
I can’t be understated.

It looks a little different now
With carvings and with battle scars.
Airenh is pictured riding dragons,
As written in the stars.

“We have a stowaway aboard the ship,”
Sorrel informed us fast.
Hareed, the slimy bloke from Styes
We meddled with in the past.

Session 71 - 11/6/2022
Our to sunset, we board the Falling Star and are led to Hareed.  He greets the crew and introduces himself to Airell, who says his name is “Friend.” why give him more info than he needs?  Hareed gives condolences to the party for the death of Airell and is confused as to why everyone else is laughing about his dying with friends like these…. He asks whether Nenredhe is alive and when questioned, explains it’s because they had been working together since Aboleth adventure and Dory’s death.  It was he who warned her not to be at the manor when it was attacked.  As Arienh is probing for more information about their partnership, Kellen blabs that Nenredhe is dead, thus ending that line of inquiry face, meet palm He did let slip that Scant was a trial run for actually working together as opposed to just helping each other.  Hareed’s ultimate goal is to kill the Plar of Hool and take the Hold of the Sea Princes for the Scarlet Botherhood.  Mornie tries to verbally spar, but gets frustrated at the lack of progress.

Nenredhe believed that our arrival in Scant meant that Drawmij had figured out that she was going rogue and that he had sent us out to stop her.  There was much consternation among some of the IT about whether or not we were just Drawmij’s lackeys, as both Nenredhe and Hareed have assumed MK picks the weirdest times to get philosophical MK posits that it could be a harem situation does that make me short eunuch? Sometimes I think she’s been bashed in the head one to many times.  Or became a demon too much, because that’s apparently something she can do.  She also wants the HoSP dealt with, but obviously had other final plans for what should happen there afterwards.

Their trial run in Scant was to overthrow the Shrek, basically the king of Onwall, and then Hareed had things set up to turn it into one of the obedient realms of Shar fancy name for the Scarlet Brotherhood after Nenredhe had stirred up unrest against the Shrek.  Aarilar was one of her agents, through whom she set up the meeting with us, hoping Bigby would kill Drawmij, and then we’d fight Bigby because we’d want…revenge? Honestly I have no idea why.  Even if he was our boss, we’re clearly capable of fending for ourselves.  Well, some of us.

Mornie keeps trying to get more info good for her and asks for Nenredhe’s sources.  Otherwise, she remains very quiet.  Hareed continues and says he knows that we want to go to the Scarlet Botherhood and destroy the Grimoire and asks if we also want to destroy the copies held by the Watchers of Oblivion.  They are part of a different faction in the Botherhood than Hareed, and Scarin was more aligned with them.  Whereas Hareed thinks they are superior because of their culture, the Watchers think they are inherently better and have been trying to artificially unlock magic in themselves.  They originally found the Grimoire and eventually made it central to their plans after other failures.  Eventually, Hareed claims, they began to worship the Oblivion, instead of just studying it.

The leader of the Botherhood, the Father of Obedience what’s with horrible leaders calling themselves “Father” was more inclined towards the Watcher’s beliefs and had ok’d the initial research into the Grimoire.  However, the Watchers have hidden the worship side of things because that would be the ultimate no-no.  Even without knowing that, the Father is growing impatient with them because of their lack of progress and blames them for all of the IT crew’s interferences and therefore has started investigations into them.  If he finds they are worshiping the Oblivion, they will be, in a word, erased.

Mornie asks why they just don’t tell on the Watchers good question Apparently, it’s because the Father has believed in them in the past and spent considerable resources for their projects and doesn’t want to believe he was wrong well duh, but someone clearly hasn’t heard not to throw good money after the bad.  Unless you can cheat your way out, that’s always a legitimate option, if you’re good enough.  Not sure if he is though.  Although come to think of it, if he’s already investigating them, ,he’s clearly not sure about them…seems like a good time to let slip the truth that they got from spies in the Watcher’s faction.

Airell asks the obvious question, what he wants us to do in the so-called partnership he is proposing and Hareed says to discredit the Watchers  not exactly helpful After being asked to be more specific, Hareed says we probably need to infiltrate the Tower of the Eye to find the copies of the Grimoire.  Airell bluffs and agrees that that’s where they are  what’s a Tower of the Eye? and Hareed offers a plan to get into the tower.  He says that we should try to kill the Father of Obedience, but fail, and that that will get us access  I think this guy’s brain is pickled, maybe a side effect of being slimed for so long Airell points out this sounds like we’re supposed to get caught, which in the land of “we hate everyone but ourselves” sounds like a horrible plan.  Hareed says that he means to frame the Watchers by tying us to them and then having us attempt the assassination  that still sounds like a win-lose situation, he gets what he wants and we get thrown in a deep dark hole, best case scenario Alternate plans are bandied about as no one in the IT crew are keen on this plan.  Airell asks astute questions.  Arienh is distrustful.  MK probably thinks about her hair.

Hareed needs some extra time to wrap up his plans in Scant  are we sure we want him to do that? He could meet up in a couple weeks at one of the cities along the route to the Tivalet Peninsula  seriously, his end goal here is to create another Botherhood province. Kellen asks Hareed if he can pick up her rapier, but is taken aback when he says he’ll probably have to steal it  some people… He then asks if she was the one that crashed the party at the nobleman’s house.  She lies, but is pretty sure Hareed sees through it…Airell and Arienh definitely know she’s lying  very interesting….also that gnome clearly doesn’t get enough real world practice.  What’s the use of getting good at deception if you don’t use it?

Sorrel doesn’t want us working with Hareed  right, again, why are we going to let him finish his work? This is the same group that has tried to kill us…multiple times.  Kellen says Airell is the best planner  no arguments, but only semi-relevant MK check Hareed out  gross His character level is below IT and his health is more than a hurting MK (117 HP).

Mornie steps back in and asks Hareed about which faction he is a part of.  He says he’s with the Order of the Velvet Mantle and belongs to the Office of Diplomacy.  He is proud that he is a subcitizen  that sounds like a bad class level if you ask me Mornie seems to think that makes sense, but doesn’t share with the class.

We agree to meet him in Naerie City in four weeks and MK gives a weird code phrase to be passed along to his contact so we can identify them.  Hareed geeks out at the story reference from the code phrase.

The Falling Star heads out and upon being questioned about the battle with the demon MK gives the best performance of her life and regales the crew with the story.  The IT crew gives a bonus to the crew for their troubles and because they missed out on shore leave in Scant, causing the crew to worship us even more than before  but couldn’t MK and Arienh have timed out their stories and gift distributions out better?  It took forever to get out of there.

The IT crew meets the new cook, Granny, who is an old dwarf that is related to Ministred.  MK helps out and unlike with the last cook, Granny is interested rather than being put off by MK’s cooking skills.  Airell checks the boat for anything suspicious at MK’s insistence.  When he gets to the figurehead, Mornie keeps embarrassing Arienh in front of the crew.

Kellen studies the book to create the ritual to destroy the Grimoire and determines that she must do everything from the original binding in reverse, including bringing 3 people back to life  been there, done that, someone else’s turn on the chopping block Arienh ponders reading from the Grimoire so that she can help with the destruction ritual since Kellen is severely spell limited.

We arrive in Naerie City, it’s pretty small, even compared to Scant.  There are more ships with the same angular design as the Falling Star since they have more trade with the Botherhood.  The weather is good, Growfest passes, but it is not a big holiday in these parts  too bad

Airell and Mornie finish the wand of magic missiles and Airell gives it to Kellen, who is very excited  I give the best gifts  Arienh practices her brewers tools and then starts making potions for the group.  MK starts studying religion.  Part of her training is to fight in the pits, which Airell and Mornie take as an easy money-making opportunity  the high rollers here leave a lot to be desired

Mornie, Kellen, and MK go shopping.  They meet an old man, Breddol, who deals with magic items and shows off some of them a potion and a book for MK.  Airell is confused as to why they paid, he sounded like a doddering fool and he could have just stolen anything they wanted.  I should just go with them next time, even if I don’t need anything

Arienh gets high to divine which plan is the best, to go with Hareed, or just go to the tower ourselves.  Unfortunately, Ferrin tells her that while both are solid plans really? Purposefully failing to assassinate the Father of Obedience is a solid plan? Are we paying for this service, because if we are, I want a refund.  And if we’re not, I want a refund anyway.

Arienh requisitions a powder keg from the Falling Star slightly worried about that, that woman doesn’t have a great track record with the stuff.  I should make sure I’m not to close to her when MK fires up.

Session 72 - 11/17/2022
Over the month that we’re resting:

News from Scant: destruction of the lighthouse, and giant demon. No one is sure what happened, everyone knows Bigby was involved somehow. Scant dissolved into chaos, uprising and riots. Wealthy families allied with the mob, calling for the overthrow of the djek. The fall of the sun keep - djek and everyone is captured. They will be tried and executed.

Falling Star is ready for the long journey. All merch was sold, and we have supplies to go around the islands.

We need more people to read the Grimoire to have a chance to actually destroy it.
Mornie reads it, creepy stuff happens and she starts hearing everyone’s thoughts.She goes catatonic and Kellen tries to wake her up. Mornie falls and hits her head. She comes to with a terrible headache that doesn’t go away for days.
Kellen goes to fetch Arienh who is still tripping balls. Mornie looks in shock. Nothing helps her. Arienh is tripping balls, maybe for spells, maybe for fun. Finally after couple of days she casts greater restoration and Mornie is okay again.

Arienh had a dream. It’s the usual one of the day her parents died, but this time after she doesn’t drown she’s in a different body.
She’s a body guard to some important Brotherhood people a man and a woman, and learns a lot of useful things following them around. They are sailing around on the Fallen Star. She sees them giving orders to Skerrin.
They visit Kro Terlep, and Arien sees the defenses, the wyverns, the square keep with no windows. She wakes up as she passes the gates of that keep.
She knows that woman is responsible for everything terrible that happened.

It’s new moon, and apparently it’s affecting Arienh now.

Sidequest is to make chalice for Hero’s feast. MK and Airell hire a goldsmith who says she’s only done a similar thing once, for the count.
Couple weeks later she’s robbed while she’s walking to the bank to store the gold. She says it was thieves guild, although it was eradicated in the city a while ago.
MK conducts an extra thorough interrogation of goldsmith’s staff. Her apprentice is adorable, and also innocent.
Mornie and Airell fail to find any signs of thieves guild around the city, which is suspicious on its own.

Harid’s person shows up and sets up a meeting in a bathhouse.
Harid is there and he brought gifts. He retrieved the rapier for Kellen, and he even knows the history of it (how does he read when his hands are always wet and slimy?)

He also has the unfinished chalice. His people found it.

He also has a bit more of a plan now, and we decide to go with that, since our plan sucks.
Sorrel is unhappy because she just offloaded all the cargo, and now we want to pretend to be merchants again. Oh well…

